Anime Series Like Death Note To Put On Your Watchlist

Steins; Gate (2011) - Like Death Note’s consistent suspense building, Steins; Gate will keep you on your toes throughout the series as you try to get to the end as soon as possible to see what happens next.

Code Geass (2006) - In Death Note, we see Light Yagami use his ominous power to improve the world. Similarly, in Code Geass, we follow the story revolving around an exiled prince, Lelouch vi Britannia, who acquires a unique and enigmatic ability called the ‘power of absolute obedience’ from a mysterious woman named C.C.

Link Click (2021) - The series starts with a different case every week and eventually merges into the overarching story arc. Here, we see Cheng Xiaoshi and Lu Guang manage Time Photo Studio, where they cater to clients seeking relief from their regrets. 

Parasyte: The Maxim (2014) - One of the highest-rated animes of all time, Parasyte: The Maxim is a perfect show to add to your watchlist if you are looking for elements of thriller and comedy. What makes it similar to Death Note is the way the protagonists come across an external force and learn to handle it in their own manner.

Paranoia Agent (2004) - Paranoia Agent is based on a social phenomenon in Musashino, Tokyo, triggered by a juvenile serial assailant called Lil’ Slugger. The story starts unfolding among a diverse ensemble of individuals, including his victims and the detectives tasked with capturing him. It is considered one of the closest animes to Death Note, in terms of storytelling and themes by fans.

Death Parade (2015) - Death Parade is set in a universe where the recently deceased are sent to Quindecim Bar where various games determine the destiny of their souls. At the heart of it, the anime series primarily revolves around Decim, the solitary bartender running the place. Apart from death being the centre of the plot in both, Death Note fans will also find this show similar to their favourite anime as it raises thought-provoking questions like “What is the fate of each visitor and the circumstances leading to their demise?” and “What will these souls face in their afterlife punishment?”

Terror in Resonance (2014) - Created in an alternative version of the present day, Terror in Resonance tells the tale of two teenage boys, who steal a prototype atomic bomb, seemingly launching a terrorist attack. Under the alias Sphinx, they upload a video on the Internet, issuing a threat to destroy Tokyo unless a cryptic riddle is deciphered. Unbeknownst to many, they are survivors of a covert experiment aimed at turning orphaned children with savant syndrome into living weapons. In a parallel vein to Death Note, this anime showcases brilliant protagonists, who engage in high-stakes confrontations with authorities, orchestrating intricate scenarios that push the boundaries of intellect and strategy.

Tokyo Ghoul (2014) - Tokyo Ghoul follows the story of Ken Kaneki, a college student, who gets turned into a half-ghoul after a chance encounter with a creature which survives by consuming human flesh. Kaneki must navigate his new existence as he grapples with his identity, the ghoul society and the conflict between humans and ghouls. With a heavy likeness towards Death Note, we see both leading characters come across new truths and creatures that give them a new sense of identity and introduce them to a different world altogether.

Tomodachi Game (2022) - In Tomodachi Game, high school student Yūichi Katagiri is a part of a close circle of four friends. However, their peaceful existence is disrupted when their class’s funds for a school trip are stolen. Due to someone’s debt, the group gets entangled in the enigmatic Tomodachi Game. Here, they face daunting challenges where their bonds of friendship, loyalty and moral compass are tested against the temptation of wealth, all while resolving the truth behind the mastermind orchestrating this sinister contest. If this premise rings familiar, you might be thinking of Death Note, where the young Light often tries to outwit L and the authorities through his master plan.

The Future Diary (2011) - If you cannot get enough of Death Note, The Future Diary will surely keep you on the edge of your seat. Yukiteru Amano is a loner high school student who spends most of his time writing in his diary on his phone and conversing with an imaginary friend, Deus Ex Machina, the god of time and space. However, his life takes a drastic turn when he discovers that his phone diary can predict the future.

Another (2012) - Another is a classic combination of psychological thriller and horror. Kouichi Sakakibara is a young boy, who gets transferred to Yomiyama North Middle School. However, upon his arrival, he notices a strange and eerie atmosphere surrounding his classmates and the school. He befriends Mei Misaki, a mysterious girl in his class, who wears an eyepatch and is often isolated by her peers. 

B: The Beginning (2018) - B: The Beginning combines elements of crime, mystery and supernatural themes, like Death Note. The story revolves around a unique dual-narrative — on one side, there is the investigation led by a brilliant detective named Keith Flick, who returns to the force to solve a series of gruesome murders that seem to be linked to a mysterious criminal known as Killer B.


