Reviews for Death Note: 

Aug 9, 2007
Xinil
Recommended
Alright, first let me say that, the manga is infinitely better than the anime. INFINITELY. But, with that being said, I believe the manga should have ended at chapter 58/59. After that, it's just a crapload of "yeah-right" and "ooookay" and "bullshit". Seriously, I hated the second half of the story. However, the first half was so ridiculously good, that I just couldn't give the manga a bad score.

With that being said, on to the details.

Story
Brilliant. I can't think of anything else that has even come close to something like this. Entertaining, smart, and keeps you on the edge of your seat. You'll want to read the chapter after chapter to find out what happens next.

Art
Looks good to me. Figures are drawn well and the females were good looking.

Character
By far, the best part of this show. The characters were...alive. You felt like you really "knew" the people. Almost like reading a book there was so much detail. There aren't any that follow a typical "stupid" or "cliche" trademark either. Thank god.

Enjoyment
Well, as I said, I didn't enjoy the second half of the story. After the first half, my enjoyment level plummeted. Read the second half, if only just to say you have.

Overall
Do yourself a favor and stop after chapter 57-59. You'll enjoy the manga a lot more and probably be happy with a well thought out ending (as opposed to the chapter 108 thrown together ending).
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice362Love it Love it2Funny Funny6Show all
375Show lessOpenGift

Jul 28, 2013
Polyphemus
Not Recommended
Q: What happens when an unstoppable Mary Sue meets an immovable Mary Sue?
A: Death Note.

The protagonist, and his adversary, are both genius pretty boys (with the odd names of Light and L) who have an incredible amount of achievements and skill for their young age. Light somehow predicts things that he could not possibly have the foresight to predict, because, you know, probability is a thing. Don’t worry though, it’s not like you know that he’ll always win, because L possesses this exact same unexplained and ludicrous ability to predict the future; he just does so without a cheesy “Just as planned!” catchphrase that makes me want to shoot myself every-time it graces my ears. In this way, rather than being a dark and mysterious thriller, Death Note often manages to be an overblown mental mudslinging contest between two impossibly perfect master practitioners of bullshit who are both describable in a single sentence. This is epitomized in an early scene where the two, who both have tennis skills at a professional level, get into a match and engage in a ridiculously drawn-out internal line of logic about how the desire to not lose might relate to the true identity of the other.


Furthermore, what kind of psychological mystery thriller has a plot entirely driven by coincidences, improbabilities, and impossibilities? Again, Death Note. Plot devices like this were used every-time the manga found itself in a narrative corner, and these cop-outs always completely killed the tension that was built up to that point, while simultaneously disengaging the plot from the audience.


The concept was intriguing, and I won’t say it did not entertain me at some parts, but it was ultimately far too flawed in its execution to be called enjoyable or good overall, and it never managed to pull off the promise of its premise. It seemed overdone at times, with eye-roll worthy developments, and lines like “I take a potato chip and eat it!” delivered with the utmost significance and conviction, devoid of any irony or self-awareness. Light’s ability, of writing a name in a notebook as a method of killing, is initially well established and limited, while being relatively creative, although you would think he’d be able to do a bit more with it, but the way the new rules of the note are introduced as the story goes on can get a tad contrived.


Characterization quality is somewhat varied, but I would say that it's generally not all that good. It was bad, really. Light is a bit too perfect, his only flaws being the well-concealed logical results of his perfection, such as his narcissism and overconfidence. It could be argued that this flawlessness was intentionally done in an effort to depict the deconstruction of a seemingly perfect human being, but I think this concept eventually fell flat. It would have been far more interesting to see an average teenager find the note and watch the scope of his ambitions and arrogance develop over time. Light is arrogant, ambitious, and a staunch consequentialist from the very outset; this, logically, kills almost all opportunity for development. As for the rest of the characters, L was far more interesting and entertaining than Light, although he was even more unrealistic, evoking the child prodigy and boy detective clichés among other things; I mostly found myself rooting for him rather than the protagonist. Light's eventual “girlfriend” falls in love with him, to the extent of obsession, right away, as the plot commands it, and this insufficiently-explored obsession with him defines her entire character. There is absolutely nothing to her besides that, despite her eventually becoming one of the most significant characters in the series. In all actuality, the motivations for most characters, besides the protagonist and the Shinigami, are hazy at best and, with the exception of L, none of them are interesting in the slightest.


Death Note has some religious symbolisms and themes, which are underplayed and done well until a forced Christ allegory towards the middle, but this all kind of falls apart in the second half and all of the symbolism quickly vanishes into thin air. To make matters more dire, the already limited development of the protagonist stagnates and his adversary is quickly replaced by two identical, yet duller and less compelling, copies. At the same time, while the developments and additional rules to Light’s ability in the first half were often a bit contrived, they were usually better than nothing; pretty much all evolution stops in the second half, and it only gets worse. The manga essentially loses everything that it ever had going for it, and it then lies fallow in that inadequate stage for the remainder of the plot, all leading up to an anticlimactic conclusion that the audience knew was coming from the very beginning. The manga would have lost nothing to speak of had that conclusion come around 4 volumes earlier than it did. Therefore, as the plot progressed, it increasingly lost its higher significance and simultaneously started to wear thin the initial appeal of its premise.


The art is arguably the strongest, or least flawed, aspect of Death Note, the character design being particularly astounding, with the exception of a couple characters introduced in the second half whose designs were either dumb-looking or recycled. The art is generally pretty atmospheric and it never skimps on detail out of convenience, although not much detail is required in the first place. The design of the main antagonist, while understated, is particularly impressive due to the fact that he manages to be very aesthetically appealing, despite the ridiculous heroin chic vibe that the audience gets from him. It is usually pretty stellar, although side characters aren't all that detailed.


In the end, what Death Note did accomplish was hackneyed and not all that original; it could not be called “deep” nor was it ever cutting-edge in the grand scheme of things. The coincidences and general improbabilities that drove the plot bar it from being called “realistic,” more than the out-there premise ever could. That said, it should be given some credit for featuring a true antihero, who is still often admired by the audience, and ultimately not being afraid to portray him as pathetic. It also never used the character’s high school age as an excuse to throw light school-life hijinks into the plot. But these positive qualities unfortunately failed to have too much influence in the industry, and they are additionally outweighed by negatives in the universe of the manga itself. Code Geass, a blatant Death Note rip-off, wasted no time at all in taking every single good Death Note did and flipping it all on its head. I might recommend Death Note, if only for the first half, but only with a warning that it fell apart and that even the first half is not as great as it's often made out to be. You honestly might be best off watching the first half and simply skimming the plot summary of the second, because it has nothing of value to offer the reader beyond that point.

Note: This is mostly a modified version of my review for the anime. They follow the same storyline and suffer from the same fundamental issues.
Reviewer’s Rating: 4
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice283Love it Love it2Funny Funny25Show all
369Show lessOpenGift

Sep 30, 2007
Neferium
Recommended
Death note is a perfect manga of suspence and thriller. The story line is rich and tasteful and characters really standout from other manga and anime by the fact that they are so different. while reading Death note it will make you think and guess until the end. This manga is has dark themes because the main character basically goes on a killing spree for 6 years to create the perfect world and outsmart this foes.

About the story. The main character is Light Yagami who is a bored Highschool student, he soon finds a Death note which has the power to kill people by writing there name in, he soon finds out about this power and a Death god call Ryku comes to Light. He decides to make the perfect world in which he is God. He starts killing criminals with the death note and soon becomes famous and known as Kira. We then see how the story unfolds and the intelligence of the main characters.

Just something I should point out, you will never guess what happens at the end.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice162Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
163Show lessOpenGift



Oct 10, 2008
AironicallyHuman
Recommended
There are a limited number of manga series that can be considered worldwide hits. Rather surprisingly, considering the amount of dialogue and seriousness of a story that the author had doubted would be accepted as a Shounen (young boy) Jump title even in Japan, Death Note became one of those titles. When a story about someone in our world finding a killing tool Death Gods use (and killing anyone they view as evil with to create a better world) becomes so successful it's a little special - it isn't every day that a story where words and not fists are used as weapons becomes this popular. Death Note has become so popular that there have even been stories on the American news about kids at school getting suspended after notebooks were found on them with details of deaths written inside!

My first encounter with Death Note was with the anime. I saw discussions about it on a forum I used to visit frequently just after the anime started airing in Japan and what I read interested me, a lover of dark and depressing stories, enough to download the first episode. I was blown away by the quality of the story, the mix of real world and fiction blending superbly. Every episode thrilled me more than the last during the first section of the story, never allowing me to remove myself from the edge of my seat. I watched all 37 episodes weekly and was very rarely disappointed.

Fast forwarding to the recent past, I discovered a Death Note manga box set was coming out by chance. Each of the volumes has a different coloured spine, with an image of a different Death God at the top of each of the spines. The covers all have the same theme: a cross, one or two characters shown and faint Death Note rules in the background, with each cover using a different coloured background. The art inside the books is truly wonderful; clearly benefiting from Death Note having had one person work on the story and another on the art. The characters expressions are amazing, with the artist clearly being very good at showing extreme emotions. The only problem with the art I spotted was with the early drawings of the Kira investigation team members being poor, the reason for this being that the artist didn't know during the early stages if they were important characters or not.

After only recently reading volume 1-27 of Naruto and seeing the author of that series use the pages in-between the chapters to reveal lots about himself, what disappointed me about the volumes wasn't the covers - it was the lack of extras. The author of Death Note seems to have used a pen name, meaning he or she didn't want to reveal too much, which seems to be the reason behind the author not adding any information about his/her life in-between the chapters. Sure, there are a few Death Note rules in-between the chapters, but most of the rules aren't very interesting...reading about the experiences of the author would've been much better.

I can now finally get into what matters: the story. Death Note is, as you can doubt work out from the name alone, one that deals with death on a regular basis. It starts with Light Yagami, a genius student who finds life all too easy, finding a notebook that a Death God dropped into the human world out of boredom. Light's initial reaction was to not take the notebook or the rules written inside it seriously, but he soon came to the horrifying realization that the notebook wasn't a joke when, out of curiosity, he wrote down the name of someone who was holding kids hostages in a school - the person died from a heart-attack 40 seconds after the name had been wrote down, just as the Death Note rules stated. Once Light paid attention to the rules, he understood that he could make anyone have a heart attack if, with their face in mind, he wrote down their name, or he could be more creative and specify exactly how they die.

From there, Light quickly overcame his fear and started to think about how he could better the world with this power. He was bored with his life prior to finding the Death Note and was disgusted with a world where criminals escaped punishment time and time again, so the Death Note made him happier than he'd ever been once he got over the fact that he'd actually killed another human. But, as you'd expect, Light wasn't doing this purely out of the goodness of his cold heart: he wants to become the God of the new world he plans to create with the power of the Death Note. As Ryuk (the Death God who dropped the notebook) accurately points out at the start, even if Light manages to accomplish his goal he would have to write his own name in at the end since he would be the last 'evil' person alive.

Much to the frustration of Light and the joy of suspense lovers worldwide, an enemy who could stop him was quick to stand in his way, the enemy being someone called L; the greatest detective in the world. Light's arrogance and temper allowed L to stun Light in their very first encounter, and from that point onwards a psychological battle between the two got underway. Light/Kira (what he comes to be known as by the public) wants to discover the name and face of L in order to kill him, while L wants to find out who Kira is and capture him. Both hide behind masks and, with Light able to kill anyone he knows the name and face of, the battle between the two is not without many twists and turns as the two geniuses try to outwit the other.

Death Note is mostly very well written and thrilling to read. The first 34-36(ish) chapters are all brilliant, the best manga I've read. The quality does then drop during the Yotsuba section for a fair few chapters, with comedy and needless chatter taking away from the seriousness and slowing down the story, but the story returns to being epic before too long and then hits its highest point with the tear-inducing finale to the first half of the story. Then, once the second half of the story gets going, it starts out exciting but the quality quickly deteriorates and the pacing becomes very poor, with far too much needless chatter taking up space. And, after a lengthy period of boring chapters, the story resumes being thrilling near chapter 80 and this time it doesn't stop until the very end - the author seemed to rediscover the magic that made the first section of the story so amazing.

I suppose it's fair to call Death Note a bit of a mixed bag due to how the quality shifts from stunning to average from time to time, but the best parts of the story more than make up for the less interesting parts. I don't even think the areas I've described as average were that bad, they just don't have the wow factor the best sections of the story have.

What makes Death Note stand out in my mind is how well the author depicts our world. The Death Note world is bleak, depressing and full of people who don't deserve to live - just like our world. Whilst reading, I couldn't help but wonder what would happen if a Death Note appeared in our world: would people still say killing is wrong or, as the world changed as more and more criminals died and crime reduced dramatically, would Kira become a God in the eyes of people? It's a question we'll never know the answer to but it's pretty interesting thinking material for a Shonen Jump title to provide readers.

The author has made a lot of surprising comments in interviews, the two most attention grabbing being that he/she supposedly only had up to chapter 3 planned when he/she started and that he/she didn't intend to send out a message with the story. It's fascinating that someone could write such an intelligent story with so little forward planning and create so many in-depth discussions about topics such as good and evil when the author only intended to create an entertaining story. Using myself as an example of someone who reads more into Death Note than the author intended, I've always thought the message Death Note sends out is clear: it's not possible for a human to reach the realm of God, no matter how perfect the person who tries may be.

With the story parts done and dusted, there is one more important area I need to talk about: the characters. Death Note has a cast of characters that start out complete, which is highly unusual. Everything you need to know about Light is revealed in the first chapter (he's intelligent, selfish and has a God complex), L is an eccentric genius with no social skills (no development needed), Misa is a simple woman who is obsessed with Kira due to her past and everything you need to know about the important members of the Kira investigation team is clear from their personalities. It would've been nice if, for example, a few flashbacks to L's past had been included, but it wasn't necessary for either the plot or his character, and the same can be said about the others. I mean, did we need to see a flashback of Light's past that tried to make him into a more sympathetic character? It would've ruined his character; he's supposed to be a character that cares only about himself, not one who started hating others because of a tragic event or something.

There is one fairly big character negative that needs to be mentioned and, due to the risk of spoilers, I'm going to have to be vague. A character who enters the story in the second half starts out by doing everything he can in order to be the best, even going as far as using and killing others to reach his goal. But, near the end, he does something illogical that goes against his character, and that illogical action resulted in the story ending how it does. So, at the expense of the character, the author used him in order to reach the conclusion he/she she wanted. Even though I love the ending, it's bad writing for a character to do something out of character for the sake of the story.

...Anyway, since this review has gone on for far longer than I intended already, I'm going to attempt to end this after I touch on one more issue: The anime. In my eyes, the anime is the best manga adaptation in existence - it's near enough perfect in my eyes. Madhouse (the studio behind the anime) made the experience far better with the perfect choice of colour, great 'camera angles', small additions that made certain scenes far more dramatic (such as a certain evil grin in episode 25) and a FAR better second half of the story. Madhouse did the best thing they could've done when they removed all the boring chatter out of the second half of the story - they turned what was slow-paced and boring into something fast-paced and exciting. The ONLY thing they did wrong was changing the ending slightly. Also, I have to mention that Death Note has the best soundtrack I've ever heard (I still listen to it even now) and the best Japanese voice acting performance I've heard.

To sum it all up, Death Note is brilliant and no-one should miss out on reading/seeing it. If you're the sort of person who likes to see a review end with a rating, 8/10 is the rating I give it. I think it's fair that the (in my opinion) inferior manga receives a slightly lower rating than the anime. Although I want to go into more detail, the review has gone on for longer than I intended already and time is getting on, so I'm going to stop here. I hope whoever reads this finds it at least a little bit helpful!
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice26Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
27Show lessOpenGift

Oct 21, 2014
Sorrow
Recommended
I don't even know where to begin with this masterpiece... I guess I'll start by proclaiming Death Note as my favorite story ever. Almost everything about Death Note is perfect. The plot is enjoyable, creative, and deep. The characters are well-developed, interesting, and symbolic. The art is fantastic, fitting, and realistic. My enjoyment and fascination aspect for this manga is beyond description. If you haven't read this manga, or watched the anime (which by the way is a great adaptation of the manga) then I suggest you drop whatever you're doing right now, and go read/watch Death Note as soon as possible. I can promise you that you will not regret. But remember, when you read or watch Death Note, turn your thinking caps on and pay attention to the details in art, you'll realize all the symbolism going on, references to the bible, and other religious aspects.

Now, in Death Note, there are lots of philosophical questions about our reality, that the readers must consider before reading, while reading, and after reading. (I'm going to write a whole load of questions, since I thought about so many things while reading Death Note.) Are all human lives equal? What truly is life? What are people's role in life? To what extent can people shape their own destiny, and how much is down to fate? What truly is death, and where do we go after death? Is the world we're living in pure, or rotten? What's making the world pure/rot? What's human nature, and how can people overcome the disgusting side/temptations inside of them? How can we tell apart "right" from "wrong", "good" from "evil"? Human beings created the ambiguous terms, "right, wrong, good, evil" and everyone interprets these terms according to their own philosophies, so there's no "correct" definition; then how can people truly consider themselves more "right" and "good" over others? What makes a crime, a crime? What is justice, and what is "fair" justice? Who should be able to decide the fate of criminals? Is the death penalty truly a humane, and fair punishment method? Is murder always wrong? Religion, which belief is truly correct in reality? Lots of philosophical questions right? That's just scratching the surface of all the psychological concepts the anime delves into.

Death Note is actually (sort of) told from the view point of a Shinigami (Death God), named Ryuk. Ryuk's world, the Shinigami realm is just a rotting world with the repetition of everyday life. Seeking an adventure, a way out of boredom, Ryuk purposely drops his Death Notebook into the human realm, Earth. What is the Death Note? The Death Note is the deadliest mass-murder weapon in human history; any person's name that's written in the notebook (writer has to have the face of the person he/she's writing down) shall die within 40 seconds of their name being written in the Death Note. Our main character, Light Yagami, a genius high school student happens to stumble upon the Death Note one day after school. At first, he didn't believe that the Death Note's power was real, but out of boredom, he tested it out by writing the name of a criminal who was being shown on TV in the Notebook. 40 seconds later, the criminal is announced to have died. Knowing of this ultimate power that he's obtained, Light Yagami vows to use the Notebook for justice. Light Yagami's dream is to kill all the criminals in the world, and create a utopia in which mankind will be able to live in peace and harmony, while Light himself rules as "God" of the new world. But the question of arises, "Is what Light Yagami doing, righteous, or evil?" Certainly Light believes that his dream is righteous, because he's ridding the world of "evil" and making the world a safer place for the "good". In public, people begin to take notice of all these mysterious criminal murders, and they give this unknown murderer the name, "Kira" (this would be Light) derived from the English world, Killer. But the world's greatest detective, L Lawliet doesn't seem to be very fond of Light Yagami's ideals. L Lawliet believes that murdering any other human being (even criminals are people) is an act of evil and that Kira is nothing more than a psychopathic murderer. And so, the entire premise of Death Note is a ingenious cat - and - mouse game between Light Yagami and L Lawliet, with Ryuk spectating our human world. Who will win, "Justice"? Or "Justice"?

Is the plot original? Yup. Is the plot enjoyable? Yup. Yup. Is the plot well-written with little to almost no plot-holes? Yup. Is the plot tragic? Yes. Is there a deeper meaning behind the story, with lots of symbolism? Yup. Is the story ambiguous in order to let the reader decide for themselves what they believe the answers to those philosophical questions are? Yup. Does the end of the manga end in a cliffhanger? Yes and No. Is it honestly all that great? Yup, Greatest manga ever. The plot-holes were kept to a minimum and they never affected the overall plot; I can't really think of any plot-holes actually, everything was important and well-developed/explained. The pacing of the manga was perfect, the attention-grasping beginning, to the subtle deeper theme/developing plot alongside great plot-twists, that eventually help create the ideal climax of the story, and then the very tragic downfall and ending that made me cry. What made the manga so enjoyable was not only the well-written, suspenseful, exciting criminal-detective chasing thriller aspect, but also the addition of lots of genius literature symbols and narrations to help solidify the deeper symbols/meanings of the entire plot.

The biggest question in the anime really is: "Is what Light doing good/righteous/moralistic?"

Often in great literature, the main character is some sort of ambiguous character (hero more often than not), that has an unachievable dream and gets lost along the way of achieving the dream due to multiple problems: harshness of reality, greed, temptation (usually a woman, but can be any thing else: serpent) and ends up becoming a tragic figure that's meant to send the readers a deep message. Such was the case of Death Note's main character, Light Yagami. Light Yagami was a teenage boy who had everything. His family was financially stable, he had a loving family, he had the good-looks, he had the popularity, he had the brains, and he had a bright future ahead of him (#1 student in all of Japan). But there was something missing to Light Yagami's life, and that was a sense of personal happiness and acceptance of reality. Light Yagami viewed our reality as repetitive, rotten, and repulsive. Everyday life of going to school, going home, hanging out with friends on permanent repeat, but not only that, on T.V, the same news on permanent repeat: War tensions between countries, crimes happening all over the place, disgusting people always joking about disgusting things. What does the justice system do? Nothing, there's no stop to these violent, inhumane acts. Light Yagami wanted to change our reality into a better place, and be "justice" itself. But obviously he didn't have the power to do achieve his dreams.. Until he found the Death Note. The Death Note is the forbidden apple, the temptation in Light's case. It's human nature to not be able to overcome temptation/desires, and so Light uses the Death Note to kill the "vermin" (people that he judges to be "evil") from the world. But what makes a person truly evil, isn't that different per everyone's belief? Light taking the bite out of the forbidden apple (use of Death Note) opened Light's eyes, deceiving him into thinking that he could become a God that could determine good apart from evil (Ryuk is the temptation serpent). And just as Ryuk warned, Light would not live a happy live for making that mistake (of giving into temptation), thus, the fall of man due to sin (Book of Genesis). Light's once pure dream of making the world a better place became corrupt along the way due to the overwhelming power of the Death Note, the magnitude of his dreams, and his greed for survival ---> becoming a God. Light Yagami is not merely an ambiguous figure, but he's a religious and even deeper character than most people realize. Light's name is "Light" for a reason. He is that one "light" that Ryuk is waiting for, to die out. Ryuk's body is that of a crow, with crow feathers flying all over the place; this symbolizes what crows to before eating their prey, they wait until the prey dies out. "Light" on Earth becoming corrupt and eventually dying out is one important theme to look out for. Light represents a Godlike-Angel, The Devil, and a mere human being. Light wanted to protect the innocent people, create a utopia and become a father figure for the world (Jesus), but unfortunately in his attempt to achieve his naive dream, he became the Devil (Masqueraded Angel of Light, Father of Lies) and killed innocents, contradicting his original pure goal. But Light in the end, is still a human. "Absolute power corrupts absolutely." This was the very case for Light. It's in human nature to want to seek adventure, to survive, be tempted to try something, be greedy for more, and achieve your dreams no matter what it takes. That's all I'll say about Light. (SO MUCH MORE TO SAY!)
L Lawliet, the other main character has the word, "Law" in his name, because he believes that following the "law" that human beings created is the righteous way to approach criminal acts in the world. But is that truly effective? L and Light are the ultimate foils for each other; while Light had everything he could have wanted in life, L had absolutely nothing. L had no family (therefore obviously a financially unstable, and harsh childhood), L had no good-looks, L had no friends, and L had no trust/love from anyone. L wanted to protect the people of the world by following the laws set by the people, even the people that didn't trust/like L. He came, served, cared, protected and ______ (Jesus). The plot may have been focused upon the cat - mouse chase, but due to some astonishing plot-twists, L and Light end up teaming up together to catch Kira (^o^ confused?). Despite their complete opposite philosophies, and distrust for one another, there's always a sense of growing bondship/friendship/brotherhood between these 2, which really adds a lot to the overall plot.
Ryuk and Misa Amane, are two characters whose importance to the entire manga are often overlooked. Misa Amane in Death Note was quite the interesting character, because unlike almost all, if not all great literature, she (the female) was subject to temptation of love (of Light, the male). Misa Amane lost everything in her life, her happiness and in the end, ____ because of her unrequited love for Light Yagami, who really was also the serpent in a way. Ryuk giving Misa Amane a rotten apple telling Misa that it would grant her a wish (and she taking a bite out of it), was very symbolic. It symbolized the poisonous apple from Sleeping Beauty; the apple does not actually grant any happiness/wishes, it's in reality poison. Ryuk is the crow-like devil waiting for "light" to die out in the human world, and for corruption and darkness to take over.
Melo and Near, L's students receive a lot of hate from readers because of their inability to be as great as L, and because of what they do to Light Yagami. I will not get into detail about these 2, because of what they did to Light Yagami, my hero.

The art in Death Note was nothing short of amazing. The minor details that went into each scene mood-fitting wise, and symbolically were amazing. The portrayal of each character, Light = handsome, seems like a perfect boy, L = irregular, ostracized boy, Misa = Beautiful girl whose dumb enough to give into temptation of Light's Love, Ryuk = a crow-like devil, and Melo-Near = Each have a resemblance to L in both looks and behavior; they both take after their sensei. The hints of religious symbolism with the cross glowing behind him, the heavenly light shining upon him, and the stairs (that usually represent ascent and descent, often times from one to another) that symbolize descent from innocence romanticized dreams to knowing the horrors of reality/realistic dreams, when ____ dies was a marvelous artistic touch that added all sorts of deep concepts/hidden messages to the manga.

The ending of each chapter will definitely have you wanting to write your name in a Death Note for more. The conceptual questions I mentioned in the earlier part of this review are definitely some questions you have to keep in mind and watch for what the writer/creator, Tsugumi Ohba has to say about each. This may be a bit far-fetched, but do you think that Shinigami and Shinigami world really existed? I felt like the Shinigami's boredom, thirst for adventure and change was a reflection of Light Yagami's thoughts (no one that doesn't know Light's thoughts sees Ryuk), and the Shinigami realm was a reflection of the human world; repetition of everyday and slowly rotting away. Ultimately, the nativity of Light's romanticized dreams are not possible in reality, and while showing the concept of romanticized Vs Realistic, the anime delves into Life/Justice/Evil/Right/Wrong/Death/Religious concepts; truly a genius piece of writing that EVERYONE should read. A perfect 10/10, and still this rating doesn't do this manga justice. I also recommend watching the anime adaptation of Death Note, very well-done.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice23Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
24Show lessOpenGift

Jan 13, 2008
exabyte
Recommended
Light Yagami is the perfect student, probably the smartest you'll ever see. He picks up a Death Note on his way home from school and his life is changed forever. He goes on a killing spree by ridding the world of all evil (or what he deems evil, rather). A detective named L Lawliet decided that this was too much, and stepped in to end Light's killing spree. They fight a long battle of wits!

The second arc comes along, a wannabe named Near and a chocoholic named Mello become the new protagonists (well actually Mello is more of an anti-hero). Anyway, they challenge Light (who is still trying to kill these evil guys). But Light is very smart, how will they be able to put a stop to reign of evil? The only way to find out is...

Read the manga.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice19Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
19Show lessOpenGift

Sep 14, 2011
miss-makai
Recommended
This was the first manga I ever read fully and it remains my all-time favourite. It deserves all its popularity and hype, and you will not be dissapointed if you read it! Honestly, I decided to start this one day and it was very hard to stop. Very very hard. I think I read this all in a day the first time I read it.

First things first, the story is incredible. The characters work so well together and the story takes a lot of risks but all of them work really well. The time jumps are great and mean the story doesn't sit around doing nothing at any point. Light is a character you can both love and hate, as you can see both that he is wrong in using the Death Note, but the reasons behind it - to start with - are pretty pure. L as well is my favourite character of all time and the two are perfect as both enemies and friends - which remains one of the complex and best relationships I have ever seen.

The characters are almost all enjoyable, though I can't say I liked Misa much - this might be just my opinion - yet the story does take a few turns that will have some people extremely upset. Death Note though is great in that it kept on creating brilliant new characters throughout, who are even better than some of the original characters!

The art is great, and each character is given their own 'look' as well. I liked how Light always wore something that suited his personality, considering how many different outfits he went through, and how this point applied to everyone else. The artwork for L as well made him stand out from every other character, which showed just how different he was from them. The shinigami also have some great artwork too as some are made to look like humans - only twisted - while others are made to look only like monsters.

This manga is well and truly a classic. It's not easy to create characters and a story that focuses so heavily on moralistic values and good and evil. Each plot twist is cleverly crafted and it always is made to feel fresh, especially when new characters are involved. If you have not already read this manga, do so now. If you have already, read it again. It is one of the best out there.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice13Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
14Show lessOpenGift

Apr 8, 2017
Dietrologia
Mixed Feelings
Each era of anime is marked by its own trends, its own conventions, its own shows that dominate the conversation and shape public perception of the medium among fans and non-fans alike. For the 2000's, Death Note was one of the biggest, and a good argument could be made that it WAS the biggest. It achieved a seemingly omnipresent level of saturation, you could not go to a forum on any given nerd hobby without people filled with avatars and signatures from the series, and its famous lines are parroted even now. Its anime adaptation was immensely popular and reached a level of pop cultural osmosis that was thorough enough that even people who don't care about anime obtained a passing familiarity with at least the eponymous concept. As of this writing, it is even getting a westernized adaptation on Netflix with Willem Dafoe of all people as Ryuuk.


Unfortunately, I can't really hold the series in an especially high regard for a number of reasons despite all the critical acclaim and praise that has been lavished upon it.

To get the good out of the way, it certainly has a pretty fascinating hook. The ability to easily kill anyone without leaving any proof, thoroughly avoiding any consequences, merely by writing their names in a notebook, is a pretty interesting and memorable concept. It has immense potential for all kinds of storytelling possibilities, such as the development and psychological effects that this would have on the person using the Death Note, the wider sociological repercussions of a mass series of killings that seem to be divine punishment, whether it's morally justifiable to kill criminals given that any justice system is heavily skewed in certain ways, etc.

Secondly, it has very good artwork. While Obata is not among my favorite manga artists, it would be disingenuous to not recognize his draftsmanship as arguably the strongest point of Death Note. It is not by any means easy to create polished and detailed art on a weekly basis for manga even with assistants, and yet Obata pulls it off with aplomb and a very strong aesthetic. My favorite part are probably his fantastical shinigami designs, which have a very "demon punk monster" vibe to them.

Finally, the actual focus of the plot, the cat and mouse games between Light and the investigators (whether they be L or someone else) are pretty entertaining to watch. I don't think I was ever BORED reading the series since there was almost always something going on, some zany scheme or gambit at play that kept things moving. This was by Ohba's own admission what he was writing the manga around, and I can understand that decision since Death Note must have pulled in a strong readership when it was running in Jump due to its suspense on a week to week basis.

But unfortunately, even with all those things going for it, it can't make up for what I consider Ohba's crippling flaw, which is generally that I think his characters are very lackluster for the most part.

Light CAN be a fun character to watch, but I ultimately feel that he is a detriment to the series because he isn't especially nuanced or interesting. Everything related to his "development" is handled in an extremely underwhelming manner. Any scruples that he has are quite quickly tossed aside in a manner that makes later developments to paint him as a good person prior to the Death Note as completely unconvincing. He is little more than a petulant, arrogant sociopath with a god complex who only becomes more and more unlikable and pathetic as the series goes on. He has very little in the way of humanizing traits or moments, which just renders him completely impossible to like or get behind. This may have been the point, but I don't feel that it made for a good character because you can still have a complex and nuanced villain who is still someone to hate, but who also has layers and where you understand why he became the person they did and perhaps connect with them on some level against your wishes. Light does not achieve any of that, so as it stands I just don't find him to be that great.

L is probably the best character in the series, a fun character to watch with enough bizarre quirks to make him feel more human than the other characters, even if it's an exaggerated animu way. I would honestly say that he is one of the series' biggest assets, every scene he is in is one where he has your attention. I don't think that I can hold him up as one of my favorite characters in anime and manga, but among the ones in the series, he stands supreme.

The thing about this though, is that it makes the conflict in place have a pretty clear right and wrong. I have heard a few times about the supposed moral ambiguity of the story and the idea that people debate on who to root for, but with all due respect I just find that to be malarky. Light is such a horrendous, sanctimonious individual that it is impossible to suggest that he is in the right with a straight face. His entire worldview and methodology to using the Death Note is fundamentally and horrendously flawed and likely led to many innocents being killed, he simply cannot be trusted with that kind of power. This is someone who killed a man entirely because he insulted his ego, that is his defining character moment at the very beginning of the series. He isn't even the kind of charismatic villain who you want to see triumph. The idea that anyone should root for him or want him to win is completely laughable.

I don't think most of the other characters really have that much going for them, honestly. Almost all of them are defined by very superficial characteristics that make it hard to really care about them in any meaningful way. IIt feels like Ohba only really cared about them as pawns on a chessboard to move his thriller plot along, without bothering to put some effort into humanizing them and making them compelling characters to be invested in.

There was one moment in the story where one character leaves the investigation due to anger at how he is being treated, and is greeted by his daughter who asks him what's going on, leading him to burst into tears and hug her. This was one of the few instances of warmth and actual humanity in the story where I actually cared somewhat about what was happening on an emotional level, but there was never any other time where that happened. Overall, Death Note is quite an impersonal and cold story as the characters aren't really people you connect with all that deeply.

Now, it is not necessarily true that you need super great and complex characters in order to have a worthwhile story. Some people may say that, but I don't think it's true, per se. If your story is more theme and idea-driven, then it is ok for the characters to be a bit more flat or to be more representative of ideas and philosophies, or be more timeless archetypes in order to make a point. The story need not be super emotional either, as long as it is interesting.

But for that, your ideas need to be actually interesting and you have to deal with them in a meaningful and insightful way.

Death Note never does that because it is entirely focused on its thriller elements. Ohba himself said that he wanted to leave moral judgments and sociological commentary for the audience to think about. I suppose I can understand that decision, but Death Note completely neglecting this area of the story feels like a bunch of squandered potential. All of the questions that I mentioned above regarding the premise's potential that could have been explored due to the premise are left as footnotes or passing mentions at best.

This means that Death Note only really works as a reasonably entertaining thriller; it cannot to be said to be a strong character-driven drama, nor is it a poignant thoughtpiece that presents interesting concepts and gives insightful answers.

What this basically means is that looking back on Death Note, I am just left feeling that the version of the story that I got from the premise was not at all the kind of story I would have preferred to get from it. I would have done a lot of things quite differently, such as significantly changing Light's character, focusing a lot more on societal effects of Kira, putting more character moments to add complexity to the cast and make you care about them, etc.

But I suppose in the end I can't really be that hard on it, since I was entertained reading it. It just isn't anything more than a 6 out of 10 for me as an experience.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice14Love it Love it2Funny Funny0Show all
20Show lessOpenGift

Dec 21, 2007
ArcherKinao
Recommended
I cannot help but love this manga. I first read it in Shonen Jump magazine a long time ago. I still have it here somewhere. Since that first chapter I went crazy and had to know what happens.

It draws you in fast, because of the many twists and the amazing minds and strategies the two main characters use against each other. Its like a literal battle of the gods or good and evil.

Its also very deep, you get to know these characters and things happen that you wont expect.

I can't say much without spoiling it. But if you enjoyed the anime check out the manga. I enjoyed the manga a lot more then the anime. It just goes deeper story wise.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice14Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
15Show lessOpenGift

Jan 25, 2014
KaiserSoul
Recommended
Alright, first review I’ve done on this site, so apologies if it isn’t exactly the best thing. The reason why I decided on Death Note was for the simple reason of…it was because of this site that I got into it, and Death Note opened me up to series where fighting isn’t really relevant, so I felt it would be fitting for my first review on here to be about one of my “Life Changing” manga/anime. Let’s just get into this though. Oh yeah, I’m putting spoilers in this review, nothing major (I think anyway), but you have been warned.

Story: 9/10
What is the whole premise of Death Note? Essentially, it’s about a high school student who found a book that can kill people and decides to play God since he has the power to “judge” people now. This student, Light Yagami, starts off only killing criminals that he deemed were too evil for this world, but eventually decides to kill anyone that is a threat to his ideal world. One of these threats is a detective that goes under the alias of L. The first half of the series mainly dealt with Light’s rise to godhood while having a mind duel with L, the one person Light thought could figure out he was the culprit for killing all these criminals. If I can make an analogy, this battle between L and Light could be compared (albeit on a much serious scale since whoever loses between those two loses everything) to Yugi Muto and Seto Kaiba from the original series. Much like Kaiba, Light is hell-bent on defeating his rival and then rising to the greatest in their series (Dueling world for Kaiba and the world in general for Light). On the reverse side, L and Yugi are more focused on just doing what they do best, and take all challenges, including the challenges of their rivals. I can also say that the battle between L and Light was the greatest part of Death Note, and I can maybe even say one of the greatest in manga period. The plot twists are also so amazing. The most controversial one of them all is still in my Top 5 moments in all of manga, even after all the other series I have read. I’m not saying what it is, but you can probably figure it out if I told you it involves L’s and Light's final confrontation. All in all, I say an amazing plot. The only reason why it’s not a perfect score is because near the end, they were making a lot of characters almost nonexistent (Misa being the prime example).

Art: 8/10
If I can say anything, it’s that the characters are drawn pretty well. With one exception, I don’t think there is one character that looks bad and even then, the one character I think looks bad is probably just me. The scenery looked nice, and when something evil from an “evil” character was about to happen, I could definitely tell that most of these characters were enjoying themselves with their facial expressions (hello Light!). I’m not good at describing art, so I’m keeping this part short.

Characters: 15/10 (10/10)

Oh. My. God. These characters are some of the greatest characters I have ever had the privilege to read about. With one exception, I really love every single character in Death Note. I think every single one of them are written in a beautiful way that makes them extremely interesting and diverse that you can’t possibly mix up any character. I’m going to put it his way for all you video game enthusiasts and especially Portal fans; I would say most of these characters have the same charm and likeability as the ones in Portal and the sequel. I’ll go a little in depth about the two main characters so you can see where I’m coming from.

Light Yagami, the main character of the story and probably the most well written character, isn’t your typical hero where he’s good and he can never do evil. No no no, he’s far from good. If I can give him one title to describe it would be Satan, and that’s why I love him. He is so distant from what I was accustomed to for a main character of a manga, that I was actually upset whenever he was losing against L. I think the biggest reason why I love the guy though is probably because of the way he had fallen from grace. Based on what I said previously, you would assume Light was evil from day one right? He actually started out with good intentions, only killing criminals that he saw doing crimes himself. Eventually though, he started becoming more and more power hungry, and killed anyone he felt didn’t fit in his ideal world. That is actually a believable reason to descend into become the very evil you set out to destroy, not because you felt like being a dick (like most hero-turned villains in media sadly). Other than having the power to kill all, Light is actually a realistic character. Anyone would become corrupt if they had that much power. I could go on with this, but I got one other character to do plus a whole other section, so moving on.

L, the second main character and my second favorite character (you probably wouldn’t ever guess my favorite), is probably one of the strangest characters if he isn’t the strangest character in the series. My first impression of the guy was that he was going o be a guy that looked interesting but would only have one good moment in the entire series, not counting when he beat Light. Boy was I wrong and I was so glad about that too. While Light got the most development as a character, L was the more entertaining of the two in my opinion. He’s a real pleasant surprise since, like Light, is almost nothing like the standard hero of a manga. He isn’t afraid to do cruel and demented things like torture Light and Misa to get answers, and even considers writing people’s name in the Death Note to see if it really does kill people. He’s also not afraid to be out there, with his strange sitting position or how he admits that sleeping would make him stupider. He’s still a genius though, despite his weird habits. Only someone like L could pull off having not one, but three different aliases and not get discovered, all of it with no one but his butler knowing his real name. That is pretty impressive, no matter how high your standards are.

Again, most of these characters are written so well, that I think there is only one character that I think could have been improved on. The characters are definitely the reason why you read the series.

Enjoyment/Overall Rating: 10/10

Overall, Death Note was a blast to read/watch. If you are just getting into manga/anime, go and give this series a read, you’ll probably love manga in general after doing so. If you are already a long time fan of manga, why haven’t you checked this out? You are missing out on an amazing series and should check it out. From the characters to the amazing plot twists, there wasn’t a single dull moment where I just wanted to give up on this series. I’m not afraid to give Death Note a 10/10, as it really deserves it. Thank you for getting me into non manga Light and L, hope you can do the same with other new people to the world of manga.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice11Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
12Show lessOpenGift

Sep 11, 2009
theaustincritic
RecommendedPreliminary (16/108 chp)
Created in 2004 by writer Tsugumi Ohba and illustrator Takeshi Obata, Death Note originated as a manga that received critical acclaim a month after its release. The anime, released in 2006, was given great praise immediately after it‘s TV distribution. Having heard of its fan base and popularity, I decided to purchase a few volumes of the manga and rent a few episodes of the anime, careful to not have big expectations.

What I got was simply a riveting masterpiece that I have no shame in calling this the greatest manga/anime series in the world. Regardless of whether you love or hate comics or animated TV shows, Death Note is a series that should be enjoyed by those who love thought-provoking concepts, endless twists, turns and main characters that are so complex that pages of literature can be based upon them.

The story centers on a teenager named Light Yagami, an intelligent student who finds a notebook simply titled “Death Note.” After discovering that he can kill people by writing their name in the notebook, he decides to use the book to rid the world of criminals, believing them to be the cause of all grief. After killing countless criminals, half of the world embraces Light as a god, while the other half labels him a mass murderer, even giving him the nickname “Kira,” Japanese for killer. Soon, the amount of criminal deaths catches the attention of the International Police Organization, which immediately attains the help of a brilliant private detective, commonly known as “L,” to capture “Kira”. A psychological cat-and-mouse game quickly arises between the two.

What makes Death Note so riveting is just how much detail was given to the story. Every character, event, subplot, etc… seems to be brought to life with the use of superb writing and a beautiful art style. Throughout the series, Light seems to be headed down a self-destructive path, which may lead to his possible downfall as he acknowledges that he is in fact some god meant to pass judgment upon the world. Another factor is the way the story is told: each episode gives a lot of information, but offers just as many questions and mysteries, guaranteeing an addicting experience.

If Death Note gives you the unlikely impression that it’s a kid’s show, think again. Not only is this the most serious anime/manga I have seen, but it also contains vast amounts of adult content. Death Note is the story of an anti-hero, a disturbed individual who tries to play god but ends up losing his humanity and everything that is dear to him in the process. The tragic story is probably not going to attract people below the age of 14 because of its complexity and R rating.

Death Note is not only one of the greatest Japanese products I have ever seen, it also deals with a controversial subject worldwide: capital punishment. It cleverly discusses this issue without alienating the viewer and leaves room for lots of post-episode discussion. Death Note is an enjoyable TV show and comic book, which will entertain those who are interested in a series that offers many captivating concepts, regardless of what your opinion of cartoon shows and comic books might be.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice14Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
14Show lessOpenGift

Jun 4, 2019
BuchBehandlung
Recommended
Most people say death note is a brilliant game of wits.
They say its morally grey.
This is both wrong. All the mindreading is unrealistic. Even if you are the smartest person alive you cant make predictions about other people with 100% accuracy because in the real world you deal with incomplete knowledge. All those "i know that you knew that i knew that you knew..." stuff is entertaining but not "brilliant".
That the series is morally grey is absurd. Yes there are a lot of Kira followers in the manga but most of them are depicted as imbeciles. The only important characters that sympathize with Kira are Misa (who is portrayed as dumb, superficial), Matsuda (also dumb) and this greedy sakura journalist.
In the end Light gets mad. And even in the beginning he starts killing nonmurderers, its pretty clear that almost everyone finds that wrong.
The story is also build on a lot of conventient coincidences, for example that the police chief is the father of Kira, that Misa is in love with Light, that Rem cares way too much for misa and so on.

Light is an empty character, he has no hobbys, no interests,is asexual, he just does what you should do in japanese society, study for school. The only personal thing we know about him is that he played tennis in the past. I dont find it plausible that such a conformist would try to change the world so radically.

The thing i really liked about death note is Ryuuk.
We live in a world where everyone tells us how important it is that we personally take action, that we go vote, that we make the world a better place and such.
Ryuuk just watches, he rearly gets involved in the plot. He doesnt judge. He just enjoys the moment. In the end both L and Light lose, both lived not in the moment but in the future, in their worlds of anticipation. Rem let herself in in lights sceming, that ended in her dimise. We all should be more like Ryuuk and less like Rem. We shouldnt take life too seriously. We should stay in the present. In the end all the planning will be in vain.
Reviewer’s Rating: 7
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice6Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
8Show lessOpenGift

Sep 20, 2012
anbublackcops
Recommended
Probably the best psychological thriller there is. Not many mangakas i'v read put as much thought into their manga as the authors of this have. Work like this is the reason I prefer japenese comics over american comics.That said the Plot is not consistent. The plot becomes somewhat predictable and disappointing after a certain important event (it really is important) but that taken into consideration it still is top on my list of favourites
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice10Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
11Show lessOpenGift

Apr 26, 2012
rokkugoh
Recommended
Extremely addictive. Make sure you have all 12 volumes ready for the reading before you start! I literally could not put this down.

A caveat that I saw the live action movies before I read the manga. (I believe the first movie is covered entirely in the first 3 volumes.) The story is quite different in those two mediums. I liked how they did the fiancee thing better in the movie, but there are also a lot of things I liked more in the manga... basically way more elaborate. The thinking behind this manga is just genius. ...
12Read moreOpenGift

May 22, 2015
Melodux
Recommended
Story: First off, I should say that Death Note is extremely wordy. It honestly would've been better off as a light novel from the start. If the author could plot all that is in Death Note, I don't think he would've had a problem describing character emotions and setting the tone for the atmosphere. That being said, this is definitely not a manga that a young, not-as-knowledgeable person should pick up and read. Not for explicit content, but for fear that their little brains would leak out through their ears after trying to read and guess what will happen next in the plot. Plus, y'know, the whole heavy death theme.

However, that's where the beauty of the story of Death Note comes in. There were many twists and turns that keep the reader hooked and guessing, up to a certain point, the story keeps the reader guessing on when it will end. The first half was very creative. Some of the things that Light thought of and {even more impressively} pulled off, had gained him some respect points in my book. I was always curious to see what he would do next, given the situations he was put in.

After the aforementioned point, not much happened story-wise. More lovable characters were introduced, but I think it was a bad move on Ohba's part to move around some of those characters, so he couldn't put them to their potential use to make the second half of the story more interesting. I understand that some significant things happened in the second half, and I probably would've liked them if those significant things were presented in more of a climatic light.

Even if the second half was kind of boring, I recommend sticking with it. The ending sort of washes away the mundane of most of the second half. It's a beautiful display of human emotion and character development. For the close-minded people who couldn't {or refuse to} see the possible other side of the story and think that Kira is invincible, you might be surprised by this ending. While I sort of saw some aspects coming, the ending surprised me as well. It gets the respect it deserves.



Art:﻿ ﻿I don't even know what to say about the art. Everything was done beautifully. While it was a manga, the art didn't have that manga feel. It seemed more realistic to me, which was a nice change from oversized eyes, appendages, and hair with enough volume to inflate and cause the character to float away when a breeze rolls in. Most of the character designs were simple, but when it came to the shinigami and {at points} Misa, Obata drew them well. And let's not forget the volume covers and chapter pages. It's those specific art pages that we really get to see the nice proportion that the artist used, and the creative ways he makes the characters look good with a nice mix of clothing creases, shading, expressions and positions.



Characters:﻿ The characters in this manga were wonderful. The characters were developed well, every character {even supporting characters} had some special trait about them and a specific personality. I absolutely loved how every character was dynamic -- they changed in some way at the end, even if the plot didn't examine how they had changed. They were absolute; you either liked or disliked certain characters, there was no middle ground. There was even contrast to the characters -- Light is a bit mean and introverted, while Misa is quite extroverted, L never sleeps or goes anywhere and always has his eyes open, while Watari has his eyes closed and is L's runner, etc. The characters in Death Note were characters that you wouldn't really find anywhere else because they were all stock characters with a special twist on each of them.



Overall: The Death Note manga is certainly worth a read. Even though it's only 12 actual volumes, all the stuff that's packed in to those volumes make it seem longer. Plus there's anime, live-action movies, video games, and a later light novel prequel. Death Note raises good moral questions and is a good display of human nature. This isn't for someone who doesn't want to THINK about what they're reading while reading it. This IS for someone who wants to see a battle of brains and wits go down instead of fists and swords. A spin on something supernatural that doesn't involve mindless fighting makes for a good manga. Have fun with it.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice12Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
12Show lessOpenGift

Sep 27, 2024
Eze-Z
Recommended
Well, I think Death Note is one of the most famous manga/anime in the world and for many it was the first anime they saw (it was the first anime I saw as an adult). Here I leave my opinion about this story without spoilers.

The whole story is very well thought out, what I like most about Death Note is that it shows in depth all the events that take place in the plot, you can see how the plans and investigations that are carried out are developed.
I think the rivalry between Light and L is one of the best things that could happen to fiction. The two characters alone are excellent and very interesting. But in general all the characters are very good and they all have important moments in the story.
It was really a very pleasant read, it has a very good suspense and always keeps you interested in what is going to happen next.

The art is excellent and the chapter covers are wonderful.

In conclusion, I think Death Note is one of the best stories in its genre with some of the best characters of all time (Light and L)
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice2Love it Love it3Funny Funny0Show all
5Show lessOpenGift

Jun 5, 2014
Animeted_love7
Recommended
Some Spoilers Ensue:

Perfect ending to a flawless series. I love the anime and the manga is just as good. The show followed almost exactly, minus the last chapter which was an interesting take on Near's thinking. The theory in the end could even have kept going and I would have loved to hear more. However, I enjoyed it all the same. I thought without L the series would lose steam, but Light's character is so dominant and evil. I enjoyed Mello and Mikami as well. Near was not my favorite, but I like the idea that the two heirs equal one L. The overall satisfaction came from the explanation of not only the ending, but every major twist in this story. I didn't pick any of them which was refreshing and all were interesting and smart. The artwork was beautiful as well. This is in the top 5 anime I've ever seen and now the series is added to my favorite manga as well. 10/10 flawless.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice9Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
10Show lessOpenGift

Jan 2, 2025
Tokyo-Brain
Mixed Feelings
Even though it's not that bad, I think it's a stretch to call this manga a masterpiece. This is not a drama, mystery or police investigation manga, but one about logical explanations: most of the story is just characters talking in a random room and explaining all the logical deductions they keep making, so it can come off as rather dry and inelegant (at least for those who think plot twists and intrigues should be shown, not just told / talked about).

Also, the manga has some childish moments (I guess that's inevitable in a shounen), and even if most people say the first half is the "good" one, I find the first third of the story a bit weak and feel like from that part on it becomes more engaging.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice1Love it Love it1Funny Funny5Show all
9Show lessOpenGift

Dec 18, 2009
Chenoan
Recommended
I don't think I'm being original when saying Death Note is one of the few original stories to have ever come out of Japan. However, that I would say this, along with the rest of the world, only goes to prove that the world agrees with this opinion; declaring Death Note to be both brilliant and original. Though what is most curious is Death Note's strong theme of justice that has been portrayed in a way that will make you question yourself and your own sense of justice as your head and heart are torn between the ideals of the severe Kira and the righteous L as it poses the question –

– is murdering criminal’s justice...or murder?

Story [10/10]
The concept of playing god has been toyed with countless times in countless formats though never has it been so well done or to such a high intellectual standard as it has been with Death Note. The story of a teenage prodigy who comes across a great power that allows him to toy with life itself and of those who oppose him as he attempts to cleanse the world of all hate and all its criminals; it seems like a fair enough summary though what you need to hear is not this.
There are two factors that prove the most intriguing in this manga:

First: The intellectual drama is amazing, the thought and thorough planning that goes into every act is indescribably intimidating and can only be compared to a game of chess between two of the greatest minds in the world. However, despite the intellectual drama it does not bore you. The manga doesn't play with intellect in a way that it grows dull and flies straight over the readers head, instead it's the bulk paragraphs of information that keeps you entertained instead, greatly overpowering what would otherwise be mindless slaughter (which I would have still enjoyed), it is the intelligence that gives the usually mindless act of murder a second chance at redemption.

Second: Redemption was the word I used; redemption of a usually condemnably heinous act: murder. But is it really murder if you are taking the lives of those who have committed crimes so much more heinous? Is it really murder if there are people who will suffer throughout their lives if these criminals are not killed? Would it make you just as bad a person if you took the life of someone who had done the same?
This is the crux of Death Note; it takes you out of your comfort zone and forces you to confront your own beliefs. Who will you side with? Will it be Kira or L? To this day I am not completely resigned to just one. It is this that you will remember most of the story, even if you don't realise it.

Art [10/10]
I am feeling rather silly, handing out so many perfect scores though am comforted by the fact that the manga is deserving of such praise.
The art was perfect, syncing with the themes and the story just how you would hope it to. The art was severe and realistic; it steered away from the large haired, big eyed style, opting for a more realistic approach. Why? There is a simple reason for this –
– the more realistic, the easier to imagine it really happening.
The style choice wasn't designed for comic relief or for romantic scenes or even as the Mangaka’s personal style, it was specifically designed to let you see how real and severe the situation truly was, how easily relatable their world and our own are. It was sending a message of "what if".

It was designed to frighten us.

Character (9/10)
Why not a perfect score? Well, I will be a little selfish here so that I might comment on something:
The men in the manga were legends, powerful and nigh invincible creatures that you could only sit in awe as you witnessed their brilliance. Though what of the women? The women in Death Note were portrayed as idiots or weaklings, even the strongest of them where either designed to not be taken seriously or killed mere chapters into the manga if they showed any signs of intelligence. However, I would hardly say that it would take an entire 1/10th off of the score, if I could I would make it a 9.99/10, but I needed an opening to explain the women’s side of things.
Now, women aside, the main characters and even the supporting characters showed remarkable story and character development and their responses were so well thought out and flowed so well in conversation. A personal example is after completing the manga I went back to the beginning and was thoroughly shocked, the Light from the first chapter and the one from the last were completely different and, uncannily, I had barely noticed his transformation at all. This shows how smoothly his development as a character was underwent and how well thought out he had been since the very beginning.

Enjoyment (10/10)
There was never a moment I was bored or even slightly disinterested, I'm actually glad I read this manga after it had completed publishing else I would have been driven mad had I been left to fend for myself for weeks at a time, my suspense and curiosity slowly killing me from the inside. Overall, I don't think it's possible to not enjoy this manga.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice8Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
9Show lessOpenGift

Jul 9, 2014
artblog2518
Recommended
Death Note is a must read. I would challenge even those who say they don't like manga to pick up this series- I am convinced that anyone will be hooked by the plot, characters, and overall themes in this manga.

The storyline of Death Note is essentially a murder mystery- however, this mystery is told from the perspective of the murderer, Light Yagami. While this alone is enough to catch the reader's attention, the author continues to provide well thought out characters and plot twists to the very end.

The art, characters, and plot of this series are all very good, and often more complex than your average shounen lineup. However, what really made Death Note special to me was the surprisingly challenging questions on justice that the author managed to raise in this short series. Questions like: Are the laws of justice decided by the fickle majority, by unchanging principles that humans naturally understand, or by some sort of god? Who should enforce justice? Can criminals be forgiven? Is it morally justified to get your hands dirty if it brings about a greater good? These are only some of the many age-old themes that are brought to life again in Death Note.

This series is not only a brilliantly drawn and creatively written manga; in my opinion, it is also a contribution to the ongoing search for the meaning of justice. I highly recommend this series.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9

Previous - More Reviews

Apr 15, 2026
R-a-h-u-l
Recommended
Death Note is my first manga, and reading it in the Black Edition made it feel like I started with something far more complete than I expected. From the first few pages, it doesn’t come across as something casual. It feels structured, focused, and very sure of what it wants to do.

Death Note stands as one of those rare manga that doesn’t just tell a story, it constructs an intellectual arena and then invites the reader to participate. From the very begining, it establishes a premise that is simple on the surface yet loaded with philosophical weight. What follows is not just a narrative, but a sustained battle of ideology, logic, and psychological endurance.

One of the manga’s strongest achievements is how tightly it controls tension. There is no reliance on spectacle or action-heavy sequences to maintain engagement. Instead, the story thrives on mind games, deduction, and anticipation. Every chapter feels deliberate. The pacing is sharp, rarely wasting space, and constantly pushing the reader forward with new layers of strategy. Even quiet moments carry an undercurrent of unease, as if something significant is always about to unfold.

The characters are where the series truly excels. The central conflict is driven by two opposing forces that represent contrasting worldviews, and the writing ensures that both sides are compelling in their own way. Their interactions are not just confrontations but intellectual duels, where every word and action carries meaning. Supporting characters are not merely background elements either. They contribute to the shifting dynamics and help expand the moral and emotional scope of the story without diluting its focus.

Another standout aspect is the thematic depth. The manga explores ideas of justice, power, morality, and human nature without becoming heavy-handed. It doesn’t present easy answers. Instead, it creates a space where readers are encouraged to question there own perspectives. The ethical ambiguity is handled with precision, allowing different interpretations to coexist. This is part of what gives the story lasting impact, as it continues to provoke thought long after reading.

The artwork complements the narrative perfectly. The visual style leans toward realism, which enhances the grounded tone of the story. Facial expressions are especially effective, often conveying subtle shifts in emotion or intent that add another layer to the psychological tension. Panel composition is clean and purposeful, guiding the reader’s focus exactly where it needs to be during critical moments.

What elevates Death Note to a perfect score is its consistency. It maintains a high level of quality throughout, never losing sight of its core identity. The balance between plot progression, character development, and thematic exploration remains intact from start to finish. It is rare to see a series sustain this level of control without faltering.

It's not just memorable because of its premise, but because of how inteligently it executes it. It respects the reader’s ability to think, challenges their assumptions, and delivers a narrative that is both gripping and meaningful. Few manga manage to combine entertainment and intellectual engagement this effectively.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice0Love it Love it3Funny Funny0Show all
3Show lessOpenGift

Sep 22, 2018
minachan24
Mixed Feelings
I'm beginning to notice an unfortunate problem with mangas. No matter how brilliant and imaginative a premise, no matter how creative, authors can never follow through on it or do its idea justice. Either they blow it with a cheap resolution or play the premise out in the most generic, tedious and cliche way possible.

Death Note is one of the worst examples of what I mean. It started off with a great idea--a high school student, Light Yagami, discovers a book that shinigamis (reapers) use to end peoples' lives with. The epitome of self-righteousness and arrogance, he decides he will play "God" and kill evil people. A "super detective" named "L" then goes after him.

So far, so good, right? The problem is that after Light and L meet, Death Note becomes one long tedious, repetitive and boring drumbeat of all the characters constantly contemplating what the other characters are thinking (i.e., "brain picking"). I am not exaggerating. 95% of the book is every character going for pages on end, "He thinks I'm about to do Y. But if I do X, he'll figure out that I'm onto him. So I'll do A. But then he will figure out that if I do A, he'll know that I know B, and then he'll try C. In which case..."

This "brain picking" reaches the height of the absurdity in the Yotsuba story arc. In one chapter, almost every line of dialogue contains the word, "if" several times. For example: "If Kira does A, that must mean A is true. But if Kira doesn't do A, then B is true. However, if Kira does C, then neither A or B would be true. But if C is true, doesn't that mean D is also true? No, if D is true, then F is true. But that's if Kira does A first. Otherwise, G is a possibility."


Again, it sounds like I'm exaggerating, but this is the bulk of the dialogue. It's as if the author just learned "Logic" in math class in school and was very excited to show off how much he learned.

Things get even more confusing later on because Light technically stops acting as Kira for awhile and makes other people act as Kira under his direction. So, when he joins his father's investigative team, he contemplates scenarios in front of them by giving false information about what Kira might do to cover his tracks. It then becomes a chore to make sense of what he's saying because while he does have another person acting as Kira, he is still technically Kira the entire time. No, he doesn't have the book at that point but since he's manipulating the fake Kiras, he is still technically "Kira."

This is not the least of the manga's problems. Light is a despicable character, yet we're forced to experience most of the story from his perspective. Takada and Mikami were equally as disgusting as Light, so made reading the manga even more unbearable when the two characters joined in as protagonists.

Most of the side characters were useless wastes of ink and contributed nothing to the story (like Misa and Matsuda, both annoying, stupid clutzy comic relief characters). The Euro male and female crooks who L hires to help him came out of nowhere and didn't fit the story at all. Aizawa was completely wasted as a character.

The story arc involving Mello and his motivations were convoluted. And there was no explanation as to why all the genius kids had an obsession with eating and stacking stuff. (90% of the time, Near, L and and Mello would be eating something or building things with their food.)

Lastly, the idea that teenagers and children would be the center of such a dark story is far-fetched, even for a manga. I don't care how "ingenious" a child is; there's just no way he would become an internationally famous crime fighter or be entrusted with such a difficult case.

Because of all of these issues, I disliked Death Note so much that I was this close to quitting halfway through. I forced my way through it because I hated the Light character so much I wanted to see if he'd get his comeuppance in the end. The ending wasn't as bad as I thought it was going to be, but slogging through so much "if...if...if..." wasn't worth it.

So all in all, a 5/10 for me, the 5 being for the great art work and character designs of the shinigamis.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it0Funny Funny2Show all
7Show lessOpenGift

Dec 17, 2010
Luru86
Recommended
When I began to read Death Note, I was thrilled. The plot and idea pulled me in, it was interesting, and I just loved it. The (occasional) slow pace wasn't that bad then.

At some point, though, the pace of the story started to bug me a little. With both our detectives, L and Near, as well as Light, they kept going over the same things, talking big, planning bigger... I don't know why, but that became the most annoying aspect of the whole story: it began to drag its feet when it could have already moved on.

There was a slight change of pace when the end of L's era came and Near stepped in. I don't know why, but it just seemed different. More elements got involved when Near appeared, as well as Mello, and move moving pieces were added to the mix.

I don't know what to really think of the conclusion of the story. I kept dreading it from half-way through the whole series, because there were really only a couple of options: either Kira would win, or L/Near would. It was a thrilling ride, to the very end, and the characters that in the beginning seemed unimportant (Matsuda, Aizawa, Mogi etc.) stayed with us far longer and much more prominently than could have been expected in the very beginning.

The art of Death Note was fantastic. The details, the beauty, the little things that made it unique... I especially liked the Death Note's "How to use it" parts, because they were written both in English and Japanese (I'm studying Japanese at my leisure, so it was good practice whenever I decided to try and read it). The font was a bit hard to see, too thin against the black surface, but it gave the manga a very special design.

One thing I loved, and which wasn't used nearly enough, was the Shinigami. I totally loved Ryuk, and the others were okay as well. There should have been more of them, definitely. With all the talking and masterminds playing against each other, they were a refreshing break.

It was funny how after 12 volumes, I'm still not sure how close to the characters I really got. Even in the last volume, it didn't feel like I knew them very well.

Altogether, one of my favorite manga series - even though the amount of talking threw me off a little. Looking forward to seeing the anime and the movies.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice9Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
9Show lessOpenGift



Mar 10, 2025
ludenberghia
Recommended
One of my favorite comedies. Definitely worth a read but dont take it extremely seriously. approach it like its Don Quixote.
Personally I didnt think the story had any ups or downs, it was extremely consistent and entertaining all throughout.
Art style isnt that important to me but in certain areas it highlights the comedic value of the characters (especially ofc L and Light).
I hope it was intentionally written this way but even if it wasnt my reasons for liking it wouldnt change.
Most people like it for this exact reason, and You too as well. Even if it isnt something that would cross your mind, but lets be real it probably will while reading.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice0Love it Love it0Funny Funny4Show all
4Show lessOpenGift

Dec 31, 2008
Zagettrix
Recommended
At first I didn't want to read Death Note because people were telling me not to. They said it was boring and all the main character did was kill people by writing their name in his note book. If you know people like this, don't listen to them. I picked up volumes one through three in my school library, read them, decided to keep reading and now I'm a fan of the series.

The story is good, it's not the greatest thing ever. It includes a lot of talk and content that makes you think, if you're not into this then maybe you should pass it up. Anyways, it's basically the same thing back and forth between Light and L but you become intrigued to see what happens next every step of the way. There are a few intense moments during the story but that's about it.

The art style isn't amazing either but it's a lot better than other things out there are the moment. The detail isn't prized so much in the backgrounds but in the detail of the characters. They're given a lot of detail in certain frames and it makes their 'emotions' stand out.

The characters are probably the most interesting part of Death Note. Light and L really steal the show for different reasons. For Light, it's because of his ever changing personality and his quest to rid the world of criminals using the Death Note. He was donned with the nickname &quot;Kira&quot;. With L, it's because he's so abnormal to anything I can think of right now... from the way he sits to the way he plays with his food. I'll let you find out for yourself. If you read it from beginning to end, you'll see how much the characters evolve and change.

I actually really enjoyed reading Death Note... up to volume seven. Something big happens in that volume that turns most readers away from reading it but because of the way my brain works, I read it all the way to the end. The second half of Death Note was decent, it didn't have that original fire to it but it was still enough to keep me wondering what will happen next. I found that the final volume was well worth having to go through four mediocre volumes to get to.

Overall I think Death Note is something that you either love or hate. You can't really say until you've tried to read it and then make a fair judgment. I still think that Death Note would have been considered amazing if it ended at volume seven. Even though it went all the way to volume twelve, it could have added some sort of good spice to the mix instead of giving the readers a new annoying character in Mello. Anyways, it was a good read and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys reading psychological manga.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice12Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
14Show lessOpenGift

May 10, 2008
flutterbaii_x
RecommendedPreliminary (64/108 chp)
Throughout the time I read the manga (I haven't seen the anime. Is it good?), I was giddily bouncing in my seat and squealing. Yes, it evokes a deep sense of fangirlishness and, actually, suspense. A real page-turner.

Story: The plot is something I've never seen before. It is definitely my personal favorite, but if you want to do yourself a favor, stop after reading chapter 56-58. It gives you a sense of ending. After that, they introduce the new characters; L wannabe, Near, and chocoholic Mello. The plot gets a little tedious, and often I found myself wanting to skip through it.

Art: As far as I can tell, the art is pretty well drawn, though sometimes a bit sloppy.

Character: Not many people have noticed, but I have to wonder if the creators are misogynistic. All of the females portrayed are seen as weak and helpless - even dumb. For example, there's Misa, who will gladly give away her life for Light and is not so smart. Yuri, who was just being used for barely two chapters, Sayu Yagami, who was basically just used so Mello could kidnap her, the lady who was Raye Penber's fiancee, who is shown to be obviously in a more dominated side of the relationship, and though she was smart, was killed off soon enough.

Otherwise, I find everyone to be very lifelike.

Enjoyment: I enjoyed it very much; up until chapter 60. With that, it started up again (the plot) and it felt kind of forced - like fanfiction when the author had writer's block.

Overall: Overall...I find it very difficult not to give it a high score. Go read it. Now.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice4Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
5Show lessOpenGift

May 5, 2008
XxXMangaluverXxX
Recommended
I loved this Manga! It was a great story that was confusing at parts but it was fun to follow! I love at the end how everything fit together like a gaint puzzle! I had to get my friend to explain most of it to me afterwards.. But after that i got it! But it was amazing! The Characters are great and each of them had they're on personaltiy that i think most people can relate to at least one of them, and if not a whole person then at least bits and parts of the people. I thought that the Design and drawings were amazing and helped make the story easier to follow. The overall enjoyment was amazing! Not once did i get bored of the story and thought to quit reading the books. It kept exciting the whole way through! Overall i loved it all!!!!!!
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice4Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
5Show lessOpenGift

Jun 14, 2010
Makkasu
RecommendedPreliminary (54/108 chp)
My scores may not make much sense but it's because the story series delines as it progresses, but the art and characters remain strong. The enjoyment was a 10 untill roughly halfway through the series and this has marred my overall opion, as explained below...

It's good untill it gets stupid - I can accept the initial premises of a manga like this (Shinigami exist and kill people by writing their name in a book), that's fine because it's explained right at the start and as far as I'm aware that's the only difference between this universe and the manga's.

However, unfortunately, the plot devices just get too ridiculous. It didn't help that my favourite character died but that really isn't why I stopped reading (same happened in Claymore and I still really like that). The thing is, this manga claims to be intelligent, which it is to a degree but it fails at being intelligently silly which, regrettably, is what this becomes around the point when I stopped reading...
Reviewer’s Rating: 7
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice7Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
7Show lessOpenGift

Sep 26, 2017
Chinaz
Recommended
Summary of the story: Morality. Every character has a radically different conception of justice, but who is the good guy? And is there one? Who's right? Who's wrong? Those questions have multiple answers, so let's find out.

What defines good and evil? How should evil be dealt with? Who decides which is which? Death Note doesn't necessarily answer these questions, but it doesn't intend to; the point is that such questions have been asked for centuries and will never be answered but humans simply can't find answers as living beings in this world. This anime pits formidable personalities with wildly different worldviews against each other, and none of them are afraid to say "I am justice!". The question of who is right haunts every character and ultimately go unsolved, so let's see if we can't get to the bottom of it, using the three characters at the center of the show's moral conflict.

As Yagami Light, a protagonist is not necessarily a hero and Light proves it in the first episode.
It's not enough for him to take a stand against violent crime; after only five days with the Death Note he's written hundreds of names and declared himself the "god of the new world," vowing to strike down any who stand in his way. It's a noble cause, but easily corruptible; it's basically the communist ideal. It's worth noting that in the five years of Light's reign as Kira, the crime rate plummets and all wars are put on hold. From Light's perspective, it's one step closer to an ideal world. But a world governed by altruism is a far cry from one governed by fear. By this time Light and his subordinates have started killing pickpockets and other petty criminals, judging mankind on acts rather than reasons. The rule of law rests entirely in the hands of three flawed individuals.

Perhaps only fear can motivate humanity to coexist so completely and so quickly, but the second half of the plot makes clear that Kira has addressed symptoms and not causes. Fear, ignorance, and anger still exist, and Light is perfectly willing to manipulate these flaws in his favor, as when he organizes a bloodthirsty mob to storm the Kira task force's headquarters. And lest we forget greed, this same mob is distracted and neutralized when Near showers them with the remains of L's fortune to cover his team's escape.
Remember that Light's original motive is boredom. "Day in and day out, the same news on permanent repeat," he laments, shortly before picking up the Death Note and changing the world forever. Though he vows to strike down the wicked, he makes no distinction between hardened criminals and those "who are less guilty but who still make trouble for others." The troublemakers are culled through disease and accidents, while the truly terrible serve as examples. One could argue that Light's power gives him the responsibility to reshape the world for the better, but the world he seeks to create is unquestionably in his self-centered image.

L is described by Tsugumi Ohba as "slightly evil", and it isn't difficult to see why. As the undisputed king of detectives, L has essentially limitless jurisdiction and resources. In a world that turns on the interpretation and manipulation of data, he is as close to superhuman as one can get. It's the perfect recipe for a villain: wholly without rivals, with every eccentricity tolerated and he even is a star athlete. With the ability to succeed at seemingly anything he does, why does L devote himself to the law?

In a way, L is just as vain as he proves Light to be in the second episode. He admits that he's "childish and hates losing," which indicates a certain amount of pride at stake in his work. He also will not take a case unless at least ten lives or a million dollars are on the line. If his detective work is indeed just a game to him, it makes sense that he would seek out challenges. He may also believe that his intellect is wasted on any but the most dangerous and impossible cases. But both he and Light declare "I am justice!" at the end of the second episode. The parallel is no mere dramatic flair. As Misa's extrajudicial kidnapping and torture prove, both men are willing to go to extreme lengths in the name of their principles. But while they both work from the shadows, L has an existing legal framework on his side—one that he is more or less free to dictate. While he insists that extraordinary foes require extraordinary actions, he's also not above outright lying—everything from using convicts as expendable decoys to insisting that his trademark crouch increases his reasoning abilities by 40%.

Humans are inquisitive by nature. We want answers, and Light's tenure as God proves that many of us look up to powerful figures who claim to have them. Light appeals to an innate desire for justice in all people and uses that to rule the world from the shadows. But his arrogance consumes him throughout the second season because he has no equal to keep him humble. It's possible that L is the same way: he gravitates toward law, detective work, and justice simply because he has to succeed. Where Light represents individual, retributive justice, L represents law at its most perfect and least merciful.

While we're on the subject of L, why does the discovery of shinigami shock him so deeply? Because of the supernatural upsets the balance of the hierarchy he has crowned himself king of. Gods of death operate by completely different rules than humans, physically and psychologically speaking. Once he's acknowledged that he's dealing with forces beyond his understanding, of course, the shinigami are just one more challenge for him to fit into his worldview. So what is there to understand about Ryuk? Of all the characters in Death Note, Light's companion shinigami is the most honest. Ryuk may be deliberately evasive or obtuse, but unlike the humans he meets, he never tells an outright lie. His reason for dropping the Death Note into the human world is clear from the beginning: "I did it because I was bored."
Is it evil to allow a deadly weapon to potentially fall into evil hands? Perhaps, but would you call gun shop owners evil? All they do is respond to the demands of an existing market. The difference is that Ryuk knowingly attempts to stir up trouble - the most "interesting" humans are the ones who make extensive and creative use of the Death Note, and those who rise to challenge them. Ryuk sets in motion the deaths of thousands - perhaps hundreds of thousands. But he does not hide behind ideals or principles. There will be other lives, and as long as they do interesting things - and give him apples - he is content to watch them destroy each other. He'll be the first to tell you. It may sound like a paradox, but there's an undeniable integrity to that sort of morality.

The answer to the question of right and wrong is that there is no answer. Good and evil are mutable concepts that change with perspective and context, and defining them is a constant undertaking that stretches back as far as recorded history. Both Light and L believe that humanity is fundamentally unchanging, both use that belief for their own gain, and both have different definitions of justice to back it up. Ryuk, as one of a stagnant race, is wholly amoral, but he is under no obligation to be otherwise. Nor does he feel it necessary to disguise his motives - why should he answer to alien laws? Trying to decide who is on the side of justice - whether they take a side or not - misses the point of this show. The idea that there are sides drives human history and achievement. But in the world of Death Note, those who see beyond the abstractions have the power to manipulate them, for better or for worse.

Personal Note - This manga came out in Portugal and it took 3 years to be completed. The manga does a better job of conveying the message.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
4Show lessOpenGift

Aug 18, 2008
NanashiMoriko
Recommended
Hmmm what can I say about Death Note? It's almost indescribable. It's good I can definitely say that. The plot is brilliantly conceived and it excels in the way it evolves, twisting and turning and oh so much thinking.

It has a perfect pace, with events unfolding just right, very calculated. And it also has the comedic relief to lighten the serious tone that this manga so frequently has. The artwork is lovely, the Shinigami are drawn creatively and I like that they differ from preconceptions and no two are the same. I'd love to learn more about them.

The characters are great. I love Near, Mello and L, they are so off the wall and original. Light, wow, he's so calculating and clever it's scary but at the same time he's loveable and I pity him for the curse of the Death Note. The whole idea for a story is so unique and clever and it's been told wonderfully.

Is there a downside to this manga? I don't actually think there is, I can't think of any criticisms. I don't like L and Lights fate but its all in the telling of the story, everything that happened had to. Nope I have to say this manga is all good.

And the best bits are the amount of thinking and calculating and second guessing the characters do. Sometimes I found myself lost in their thoughts and in awe of their plans. I also liked the way we didn't always see the plans being made, we saw the outcomes and then flash backs.

If you like a fast paced action/detective/thriller manga or just fancy a new series give this one a go. Just don't expect it to be a happy go lucky story.

Nanashi Moriko *Possibility of becoming a Death Note fan girl*
22/08/07
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
4Show lessOpenGift

Jun 23, 2019
davaily
Recommended
Honestly, I don't think think I could ever recommend a story enough. DeathNote will always and forever be my number one. There isn't a thing I could think of ever changing in this series, despite it being problematic, but in a redeeming sense, as our main character yet antagonist goes through the notions and ultimately always seems to get what's coming to him.

(NOTE: I'm referring only to the manga story of DeathNote, not the anime. The anime is pretty good as well, but I do have problems with it... unlike the lack of problems I seem to have with the comics.)

Story: 10/10

There is never a moment in this story where I wasn't hooked into the plot. The pace in the manga is so incredibly beated and timed. Ohba knew what story they wanted to tell and stuck to it. Obata knew the vision he wanted for its absolutely beautiful visuals and stuck to it.

The story is geinusly written from the perspective of our antagonist as the main character. It's such a tricky point of view when he describes his reasons for using the DeathNote for good, but becomes absolutely mad with its power. He's cunning, absolutely infuriating at moments in how he manipulates strangers and even his loved ones, but what's amazing is how human and real the conversations are. There's no pandering or unrealistic interactions with these characters, even so much so with the shinigamis that come into contact with the DeathNote holders. All interactions feel genuine and make the story that much engaging.


Art: 10/10

If I could rank up the score higher than I could, then I most definitely would. Takeshi Obata is one of my all time favorite artists on the planet, let alone manga artist period. His work is absolutely breath taking and gorgeous, yet somehow extremely expressive and fun.
There are at times when you can tell that an artist is on a deadline by the quality of the work going back and forth in its pages. With DeathNote, it is always consistent and always beautiful.
Seriously, I have no idea how this man doesn't get more recognised for his craft.

Side note but I found his art book at a Book Off in Japan for $20 but I made the hardest desicion of my life and leaving it because I was afraid of going over the baggage weight. I still almost cry every time whenever I think about that, along with almost meeting the man if I had walked another block in Manhattan when NYCC was happening. He was doing a signing at a bookstore I frequented at. I was actually planning to stop by but decided not to at the last minute. I still kick myself hard over that.

Character: 10/10

Complex and so unbelievably fucking human. Excuse my French but I've never felt more in the headspace of individual personalities like the characters in this story. All have faults and all have strengths that perfectly balance with conflict amongst each other.
The cat and mouse chase between Light and L is a really wild ride from start to finish. They're always trying to one up each other in the most subtle way and yet give a huge slap in the face to the other as both L and Light get closer and closer to the position that they want to be in.

Some I think may have a problem with Light as a character, but I think that's absolutely the point. He is a psychopath and takes advantage of anyone who can help him gets what he wants. With that, he is an incredibly smart character, but with that, I think makes it all the more intriguing for us to watch and wait for someone to take this SOB down!

SPOILER
As the era of L ends, the pick up is disappointing with wanting to see L win, but more nail biting as Light has full control of his position, as the people underneath him question him.

It literally is one of the most intense reads I've ever experienced as everyone tries to piece together with their suspicions to then later evidence. It's so much fun to be a part of as Light's reign comes to a close in a most deserving way.

Enjoyment:

Do I even need to say anything? Probably not. I know there's probably very few people who have not read DeathNote, bur if you are of that tiny precent that just so happens to read this review, you better go and read before I do, again. For the 100th time.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice4Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
5Show lessOpenGift

Oct 2, 2008
123shala
Recommended
Ok so Death Note is a huge manga and anime/manga fans who havnt heard of it have got to be living under a rock. Death Note is definitely a must read for all anime and manga fans whether you feel it's your type of story or not. Why do I say this? Well it's because Death Note is so original. It's thrilling, suspenseful and always keeps you well into the story. There's always something going on as the plot leads one thing to another.

What I love about Death Note is how the plot is so well planned. Not even I could think up all of the plans which Light, L and Near plot! It's simply too genius which also makes for it's downfall. The last half of the story is when Near and Mello are introduced into the plot and that's where it kinda starts to get a bit confusing. I do understand what they're all doing but sometimes I need to read things over to get it. Some of the things didn't make sense for me which explains my '9 instead of 10' rating for enjoyment.

The characters were very well thought out. The roles they played, their attitudes and personalities added to the already amazing plot but the character I am most thankful for is Matsuda. I was so glad he was there to bring comic relief and to lighten up the manga! Some of the characters were rather annoying which explains the '9 out of 10' rating and when I said &quot;some of the characters&quot; I was meaning Misa in particular. She's annoying and clingy but at times I did think she was cute and did bring some comic relief. Also Light was pretty creepy in the final chapters.

I remember when I first started reading Death Note. I had heard of it and I only expected myself to read a chapter or two so I could at least understand what it was about. I ended up reading the next 10 chapters on the same night and I thought it was unbelievably awesome! I understood at that moment why Death Note was so popular. Sure Death Note is another story with the good guys and the bad guys but the good guys always win in the end but Death Note is far from cliche. We all know who wins in the end but it's the 'how' which gives it its originality. Overall it was an outstanding manga for me and I'm sure the anime is just as excellent. Death Note deserves the praise it receives.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice4Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
5Show lessOpenGift

Aug 23, 2009
TabbyCat
RecommendedPreliminary (10/108 chp)
Death Note is a some what complicated manga, yet it holds an amazing plot that would make 5 yr. olds have night mears about. The drawings are elagent and very detailed. And you can't help but think Light is an amazing giniuse, and not to bad looking. This manga will have you at the endg of your seats, and leave you beagging for more. So what are you doing here reading this memo go out and by all the books, and shear theme whith your friends, your dogs, your cats, and most importatly.....ME!!!!!!!!
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
4Show lessOpenGift

May 13, 2023
IhoardEGGS
Mixed Feelings
Death Note is a series that will always be held in a high regard but still gets a lot of shit thrown at the second half of the story. For any new readers to the story it is important to note that while it is fast paced and feels really meticulously thought out, the second part of book is kind of slowed down to an extent, at least for Light Yagami. I wasn't the biggest fan of Near but thought that L (Ryuzaki) was a fun arc of the story. Reading this in 2023 or watching is definitely a good idea but there should be no shame in stopping about half way. Great story with great characters, however the ending drops off a lot, it definitely has its fans but be cautious when finishing the story.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
4Show lessOpenGift

Apr 14, 2021
Sonnyman45
Recommended
If you have watched the show you will know the main complaint for the show is that the last 12 episodes are a big drop in quality from the first 25 and the characters felt very undeveloped, the show was uneven in terms of the amount of episodes each story got whereas the manga has is even as the first overall arc takes up the first 6 volumes and the second overall arc is covered in the last 6 making the second part a lot more fleshed out. If i had to say what they cut out of the anime for the second half I would say they cut out a lot of us hearing the characters thoughts scenes and we also just get a few more scenes for Near and Mello who where underdeveloped and boring in the show but the few scenes that weren't in the anime surprisingly add a lot to the characters.

The art is amazingly detailed as with most of his work and the double page spreads especially the last one have a big effect on the reader. The manga is mostly serious but when they have jokes they are fun and the art changes accordingly and you really don't know who to root for in this story which I think is a great feeling and due to this you really feel bad for the characters. Light is a great lead character and how he changes throughout the manga along with how he is drawn is fantastic, L and Matsuda are good characters too, the Shinigami's designs are all very creative and Ryuk is also funny, as for Misa she could be a bit annoying in the anime but here she has no voice so she's not so bad XD

10/10- The original manga is better than the show as the characters are more developed and the story is still fantastic and gripping, the art is also amazing and I would recommend this to fans of dramas and the supernatural.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
5Show lessOpenGift

Dec 21, 2016
butthurtbrigade
Recommended
I really love Light Yagami as a character. It's so refreshing to read about a protagonist that is confident, assured and downright selfish rather than the usual beta MC people pleaser we see these days. Light doesn't do anything for his friends, his family, to save the world or to become a great warrior. He's purely fuelled by his own ego to outsmart his opponents and have the power to kill others when he pleases (that's the real reason he uses the Death Note, the peaceful world is just a pretext.)

Most of the other characters were great too, even if the main antagonists were a bit young to be believable and the mangaka tried too hard to make them eccentrics. The main female MC is probably the worst one, the way she fawns over Light even when it's obvious he is just using her becomes too apparent in some scenes, and other characters never point it out to her even when they have reason to do so. She felt too much like a plot device.

I know a lot of people dislike the second half of Death Note but I personally enjoyed it all the same, it was an interesting change of pace and led to a very satisfying and fitting ending for the series.

Death Note is one of the best psychological thrillers not just in manga but any medium, the plot twists and turns so many times and you have no idea how it's all going to turn out, it's dark and brutal without being edgy, and the lore and concept of Death Notes is interesting and a lot of fun. There's a lot of test in the series as you see the characters interior monologues as they guess and second guess themselves and each other about what to do next so be prepared for a lot of reading. I'd recommend this series to anyone, even those who don't like comics or manga.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it0Funny Funny2Show all
6Show lessOpenGift

Jul 7, 2016
Mangageek13
Recommended
In my opinion Death Note is one of the greatest manga series of its time. The artwork in the manga was very realistic, the facial expressions are so real it's like you are experiencing what the characters are going through. The story also had me on the edge of my seat because you never knew what was going to happen next. It was full of suspense and it kept you guessing on what was going to happen. The characters were also very well done. They reacted to situations in a realistic way, which is surprising given some of the supernatural elements of the manga. The characters were also drawn in a way that fit their personalities. I would highly recommend this manga to others because it combines thriller and action all rolled into one.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice1Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
2Show lessOpenGift

Dec 22, 2020
Jakuzure_Nonon
Recommended

[spoilers ahead!!!]

If it hadn't been for the last three pages, I would've hated the ending (and I still kinda did but I'm gonna write my review ignoring that)

Story: 10/10

Gripping throughout the whole story, needless to say I was absolutely HOOKED. I don't think I had ever experienced this level of ongoing suspense, especially in the buildup to the last chapter.

In terms of only pet peeves with the story, I'll go further into it in the "character's" section, but the story itself was pure gold.


Art: 10/10

Beautiful art, the settings and character designs were amazing, I can tell the author is really into fashion because of Mello's and Misa's character designs. I don't think I need to go too much into detail, it's not necessary, but if you're looking for a manga with great art, you're in the right place.

Characters: 8/10 [A LOT OF SPOILERS AHEAD]

I found myself rooting for Kira to win from the very beginning and while it might seem extremely twisted, I genuinely believed in light's cause which is important when your protagonist is an anti-hero. My only issue with this section and the only aspect of the manga i can't give a 10 is mainly because of Near, who I found to be an obnoxious antagonist and I hate that he got a happy ending instead of the clearly superior mello. All of the other characters are likable, I was happy ryuk remained neutral till the end and I'm satisfied with him being the one that kills light but oh, man, I really hated near. L and Mello were interesting and likable and had their own convictions while Near just acted out of weird fanatism towards L, lmao what a loser.

Anyway all the other characters were really good so I can't give this part a bad rating just because of one character.


Enjoyment: 10/10

Obviously, the most important thing out of any piece of media is enjoyment and I think death note was extremely enjoyable, so I'll give it a 10.


Overall: 10/10

I get the hype, it was really good and I think masterpiece is a suitable title for it. Good job @ author
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice2Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
3Show lessOpenGift

Oct 5, 2010
Kitty14020
Recommended
One of the best Mangas ever!

Story: You won't stop reading until you know what happens next and the smartness of all the characters will amaze you! (and so will the stupidity of the main girl).

Art: Perfect! Each design of characters is well done!

Character: No cliches here, made very well! Though some characters are annoying (most of the females).

Enjoyment: There's not much else to say but you will love it! HIGH ENJOYMENT!

Overall: Why do people only read half of it? How pointless! Doesn't anyone want to know the events that occur next that build up to the ending? Wouldn't Death Note make more sense if you read the last 6 volumes instead of googling the ending which is pretty stupid after reading 6 Volumes already?

Read all of it to the end! ITS WORTH IT!
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice2Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
3Show lessOpenGift

May 12, 2019
HanSeaulo
Recommended
Death Note tells the story of two geniuses going up against one another in a battle of minds. You have a character with questionable morals taking on the mission to rid the world of evil while another character tries his best to discover his identity and stop him.

The story unfolds brilliantly. The art is well matched with the story. The characters are very well done. As the reader, you will be intrigued to see where the story goes next and are probably gonna finish the series in a day. Its remarkable in many ways, nothing too major to complain about and definitely a fun read.

Highly recommend it.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10

Previous - More Reviews

Oct 11, 2015
AWestSide
Recommended
*NO SPOILERS*

Death Note is a series that I hold very dear because it illustrated to me that anime/manga can be very smart, clever and at the same time, enjoyable.

When I first read the series, I loved it and considered it a masterpiece; I wouldn't do the same thing now, but it's still a great series.

The series itself is very clever in nature and is very original. It has great use of literary devices such as foreshadowing which can be seen in the first chapter, great character development, and several red herrings peppered throughout the series. The mangaka duo, Ohba and Obata, seem to change Shounen manga series each time they write a series. With Death Note, they delivered a great complex mystery thriller that is a great gateway for people who generally don't like manga or anime.

Story:
I really liked the cat-and-mouse game between L and Light. Each battle was extremely intense, and each genius always was attempting to outclass the other. The subsequent arcs were very methodical in nature and greatly planned out. The whole story basically questioned your morals and whether or not you thought it was right to kill criminals to create a utopia in a extremely hypocritical manner. The second half is much weaker than the first half as an important happens that changes the course of the story; the second includes two very prominent but weak characters who seem to be duplicate L's. That's it; it was as if you took the "logical" side of L and turned that into a character, and his "emotional" side and turned that into a character resulting in two very bland characters: Near and Mello respectively.

Characters:
First we have L. L was an amalgamation of everything odd with humans. He was an extremely paranoid individual who really didn't know how to present himself in society whilst at the same time being so incredibly intelligent that many people considered him to be one of the smartest in the world. He was pretty cool with his weird quirks, BUT he was also pretty bland, almost only there to move the plot forward with his plans against Light. On the other hand, we have Light Yagami. A genius high-school student who goes through a mental rewiring once he basically attained absolute power. Each is essentially the polar opposite of the other, as Light is clean, presentable and neat, while L is a "mad-genius". The cat-and-mouse games between the two geniuses were so cleverly done that in order to outclass the other, you would have to secretly kill people while eating potato chips. Yes, potato chips.

Basically what I got from L and Light was that if wants to be so intelligent, then that person must border on insanity. This was exemplified through the actions of both individuals.

Near and Mello were very poorly handled, and I think it's an unfortunate result of Shueisha insisted on continuing the story of Death Note; Tsugumi Ohba possibly felt that the series was coming to a close after the death of a certain character. Either way, I personally didn't like the characters or the subsequent second halves as much as I did with the first half.

Art:
Obata does an amazing job with his crisp drawings of all of the buildings and character designs. With his great understanding of human proportions, you have great scale drawings of humans and the shinigami.

Overall, Death Note is a great series with amazing art, an amazing first half, an OK cast of main characters, and one hell of ride. The pacing can get sporadic at times during the second half, but the aforementioned cat-and-mouse games and great use of literary techniques and themes makes up for it.

*Congratulations if you got through my incoherent review!
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice2Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
3Show lessOpenGift

Mar 8, 2008
Jin_Kaze_Tsukai
Recommended
Death Note is a rather interesting piece of work. I had never come across a manga quite like it, or characters like the ones I see in here. It starts off with 17 year old Light Yagami finding the Death Note. A Shinigami's handbook that if you write a person's name in it (and assuming you know their face) they die. Sounds like some sort of a sick joke right? Right? Wrong. The power of this little notebook is very real, and so real Yagami couldn't help but be tempted.


Welcome to the world of Deathnote where deception, and keeping on your toes is everything. That is what really hooked me about this manga is the complexity of most of the cast. Especially our two main men, Light and L. The dynamics between the two of them were intriguing. I was finding myself unable to put the manga down once I bought it! Everything in this manga does not happen without a precise, and clear reason. There are no piddly plot holes, or things that are untouched. To the first time viewer you may have to read it, and maybe one volume, numerous times to catch something you missed. Make sure you read the dialog again, and when you come to the volume after, go back and make connections. It's like your part of the twisted and macabre tale.

As far as the art goes Death Note is superb. The characters all imbue a sense of realism. Painting the realistic portrait here is what makes it so frightening sometimes. Characters are also top notch, and you'll notice many personalities. One character that stuck out the most, aside from the main cast was Touta Matsuda (hence my SN). He just seems like a genuine goofball, a light hearted guy through most of this. To me he was refreshing he was so undeniably human.
So give this manga whirl, I can bet you will not be disappointed.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice4Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
4Show lessOpenGift

Jun 1, 2011
thekawaiifangirl
Recommended
Ah, Death Note. Not your ordinary manga story. I could honestly see something like this happen in real life, minus the shinigami and creepy death notebook.

When I first saw Death Note I was like, "ew." But then my friend told me to read it, and he even brought it to school. I wasn't going to pass up an opportunity to read manga when I saw it, so I read it. I fell in love with the first volume. The first chapter honestly isn't so, "OMG I NEED TO KEEP READING" but it's more like, "Hm, interesting. Turn the page..." few chapters later..." OMG THIS IS AWESOME!!!"

What I really like about Death Note is that it's a real battle. Not a battle that's made with magical weapons and awesome powers, but a battle between who's right and who's wrong. And finally who reigns supreme. The two main characters, Light and L are some seriously badass geniuses. The battle is so tight you always wonder what happens next. What's their next plan? What's their next move? What about now? Keeps me awake all night thinking about it. XD

The reason I gave the character a 9 is because I hate the way Light is portrayed. I understand why, but it's just ew. And also sometimes, you can't tell when a character is good or bad because they're just that vague. But overall, it's an amazing story a definite good read that will NOT disappoint you :)
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice4Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
4Show lessOpenGift



Aug 9, 2024
Adam_________
Recommended
So fire. Slowed down with Near's introduction and that was half of the manga here. The show was better with the iconic music, coloring motifs, shortening the post L story, etc, but the way the ending was altered and its different portrayal of Light's fate was kinda bad. Whoops. Also, the extra content like the epilogue and bonus Donald Trump Goes Anime one shot were cool, and they fleshed out the world more than the anime did. Not a fair comparison, but such is life I guess.

Pretty much perfect the whole way through, for the manga I'd say the main problem--not much of a problem by the way--was that pretty drawn out second half.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice0Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
Give Feedback!Show lessOpenGift

Jul 26, 2013
Cinnamonflavored
Recommended
To anyone planning to read this manga (or watch the anime) please take your time with it because it is a handful of things to take in and trust me, you'll probably get confused sometimes, but nonetheless this series is actually one of my favorite manga/anime. First of all, both the concept and the art work for DN are what really drew me to this manga in the first place. Takeshi Obata did an excellent job with the character designs even with the minor characters and the atmosphere that he created with the scenery in the background really made it enjoyable to both read and look at. I couldn't take me eyes off of it! I would sometimes stare and stare at a page for about 5 minutes or more! Takeshi Obata is truly one of manga's most talented artists in my opinion. Ok, so now to Death Note's story/concept. This manga really gets you thinking even with just reading the first chapter. Just think about it, a notebook that can kill just by writing someone's name in it. How cool and twisted is that? And it even comes with your own personal shinigami (or Death God) so why not? But in all seriousness, if you want an manga that really gets you thinking with good artwork and great character designs, then read Death Note. I'm sure that you won't regret it.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice1Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
2Show lessOpenGift

Mar 1, 2021
Bibliophile715
Recommended
Story: 10/10. Death Note is a psychological crime thriller and I found the plot well paced. The writing depicted all of the aspects that were necessary for it to have a fully developed storyline. There are psychological elements as some of the plot does revolve around dark crime themes. There was no portion of how the plot was portrayed in the story that would have made my rating of this portion lower.

Art: 10/10. The art style was quite creative. The characters are drawn so that they are distinguished well enough to tell the difference between every one of them. The art style did not prevent my understanding of anything in the manga.

Characters: 10/10. I could easily tell by the dialogue which character was which. Once I got used to reading a few of their unusual names-some of which are Light, L, and Near, the main characters in the story had interesting personalities due to how in-depth they were portrayed psychologically. This story does not lack from well developed character arcs otherwise that would have lowered my rating of this section.

Enjoyment: 10/10. Considering I read the entire manga, I extremely enjoyed the reading experience. I liked the second half of it as much as the first half as I never could predict what was going to happen next.

Overall: 10/10. Death Note is an entertaining story with a very well thought out plot, dialogue, characters, and relevant themes.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
3Show lessOpenGift

Jan 7, 2014
Itachi_Uchia
Recommended
This is truly a great series. The story starts off with a teenager who finds a book labeled Death Note. He finds out, after testing it, that writing the full name of someone you've seen before kills that person. Young Light tries to bring justice to the world by using this book but is challenged by the government, telling him that what he's doing is wrong. I absolutely loved the beginning of this series when it was Light vs. L. Towards the end it started to progress a little fast and I was a little bit disappointed with the ending because I felt it wasn't as hype as I was expecting. Overall a great read, it has flaws but for the most part it's death note people. :)
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
3Show lessOpenGift

Feb 4, 2023
Fullmetaldak
Recommended
Top tier manga for a reason, cat and mouse , good and evil, morality , with a little dark twist.

I read this early on, id say my 4th or 5th manga, was a big thinker as far as the story goes. Though I enjoyed it due to its different pacing and plot. The art style as well is very solid with fine detail and shading. Cover art is top tier as well.

Unlike the anime, the story as a whole was awesome and had me talking with friends as soon as I finished it. The anime isnt bad by any means but they changed a few things.

Not too long of a series, on the must read list for sure.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
3Show lessOpenGift

Apr 29, 2017
imaginenarwhals
Recommended
Not much more needs to be said than that this is the manga that piqued my interest in Japanese animation and stories, as well as clearly reaching a level of appreciation that I felt inclined to review just what an outstanding manga this is.
It is possibly one of the most well-known anime/manga and with good reason, for it is a pleasing read that traps you with an incurable desire to binge-read and follow the downward spiral of a man with his morally-twisted intentions.
Every character is given certain quirks that add to the art of the story, as the reader is brought down a psychological journey of speculation and interpretation of their own thoughts of intensifying storyline.
The manga has a fantastic build-up filled with characters constructed from both great abilities and human flaws, allowing the reader to sympathize with not only the heroes, but also the "villains" of the story. My only complaint is the lack of a strong female character, all of the feminine heroines held at steps below the men, not just in terms of development and personality but also in their actions.
Although the women do play their part in the storyline, the female characters seemed to lack personality, especially when held in comparison to the men.
However this is the only "fault" I found with this manga, and it did little to take away from a story that prods into your mind as you struggle to answer a recurring question through the series; what is moral justice?
Both Tsugumi Ohba and Takeshi Obata nail a conclusion that could have easily been botched, as a story with so many intense twists incited high expectations of an exhilarating and solid ending. Flowing with a captivating journey to a final epic ending, Death Note truly demonstrates how mangakas work their magic over readers, soliciting emotion in both art and words, causing one to ponder their own convictions of the world.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
3Show lessOpenGift

Nov 5, 2023
Kinglink
Recommended
I really want to sit here and say "This is one of the best mangas that exist and you ABSOLUTELY should be reading it." It would be so easy to leave it there, and move on.

But I can't, I just simply can't. However Death Note starts off as one of the best mangas ever made. A big piece of it is that the manga breaks a lot of bounds. Instead of focusing on the backstory of a character, the main character gets a Death Note, a book that will let people write names in it that will kill people, and then starts doing so.

What truly works here though is the main character, Light Yagami, is smart, charismatic and interesting, instead of seeing his day to day life, we can just accept it exists and the focus becomes around the Death Note and how it has changed the main character as well as how he protects it. Right from the get go, Light knows the power he holds and continues to wield it in a way that says he's taking precautions.

And then before the second chapter is over, we have an enigmatic L who directly challenges the main character (known by the public as "Kira") and from there Light and Kira compete to find each other. Now this would be a spoiler in most manga, but this is just two chapters into Death Note and Death Note keeps this accelerated pace for the entire 108 chapters. There are a couple weaker choices, but the competition between L and Kira is exceptionally well done, and more importantly keeps the readers attention because the writers change up the formula more than readers will expect at first.

But that's all great, and honestly, this is just a top notch manga... so what goes wrong?

Well eventually the competition between L and Kira finally change, about half way through, and the follow up never really reaches the same heights, I don't wish to go into spoilers, but it's sufficient to say the level of "play" between the opponents in the second part of the manga never can reach the height of the first. It would be possible, but the changes made make for a weaker story. It's a shame, because I would read the first part a million times, it's just that good and well written, but I can't help but notice how little the desire to reread the second part, and that's a shame.

Should you read Death Note? Absolutely, at least the first part. In fact I'd probably recommend people reading the entire manga at least once, it'd be hard to stop, but this will always be half of a perfect manga... and that's a shame, because it could have easily been just a perfect manga.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice3Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
5Show lessOpenGift

Feb 22, 2018
Frosty
Recommended
Everybody pretty much knows what happens in this story. A battle of wits between "L" and Kira. I'll keep it short and straight to the point: the art is incredible, especially the hair, but the plotlines with the different tactics was awesome to read, especially towards the end where "N" and Kira give their big monologues about how they got the advantage on the other.

While reading the story, you may come to understand Kira's side (evil needs to be wiped out, but can only be done by a divine presence. I believe that's a truth in this world.), but you will love L even more for all the stunts he pulls. Now there are going to be characters you'll hate, such as Mello, Misa, Higuchi, Mikami.

Now, of course the best part of the manga was Kira vs. the original L (Lawliet), even though that had a huge decline in quality with the Yotsuba group story-arc (just pointless overall), and I didn't really care for Near (N), as he was plain useless until the last 10 or so chapters. Near is no Lawliet. That said, you'll absolutely love this classic.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice0Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
1Show lessOpenGift

Jul 25, 2018
comiclove
Recommended
As a modern classic that also helped me get into the medium of manga and anime, I hold Death Note in warm regard. This naturally led to me deciding to reread the entire manga when I got back into said mediums two or so years ago by purchasing the Black Editions. While I still enjoyed myself, I found myself developing new opinions and feelings regarding this title.

[Story - 7]

In case if you don't know what this manga is about, here's the elevator pitch: A high-school kid finds a notebook that can kill people, and decides to become a god with it. From there, he is drawn into a world of psychological games and plans upon plans.

Now, if that doesn't quite hook you in......that's okay, actually! I now understand why it might not appeal to some people: whether it reeks of pretention (to a point), seems to prioritize plot over character (which can be argued both for and against), or any other reason. However, I feel that its core being the 'games' that Light, our protagonist, both initiates and participates in is a huge strength for the title. Even if it does come at the cost of some characterization, it's still riveting to read along and try to anticipate (or foresee, if it's a reread) how these events will play out.

Because of this focus on thriller elements, Death Note has pretty good pacing; For Part I (L), it's all tightly woven together to build towards that shockingly divisive climax we all know. Even the 'breather' scenes serve to build, as they are either ruminations on the themes or developing the relationships between everyone involved. Part II (Near/Mello) is a bit weaker than I would have liked to remember; It has a tendency to get wrapped up in the inner workings of character's minds, along with the plans these characters develop and partake in, but it still succeeds in developing the tension towards that epic finale in SPITE of said deviations.

Thematically, Death Note is.......actually holding up pretty good. As somebody who is going through a coming-of-age, it was interesting to see an extremely-warped version of this appear in the title through Light, Near, and Mello. I don't mean that in a literal sense (though a corruption of one can be seen), but in a sense of one's moral compass and definitions of what 'justice' & 'crimes' are. While it's a bit ham-fisted at times, the discussions of how morality is perceived by society, both at large and by certain factions within it such as the media and law enforcement, held in these 108 chapters is worth reading. Outside of the core theme of 'moral relativity', I believe there isn't a lot to be said in Death Note. Any other themes people may find, such as mob mentalities or the ethics about the death penalty, ultimately tie back into this one.

[Art - 10]

I'm gonna be honest, I still love Obata as a mangaka. I just can't bring myself to nitpick on his work, which is OH so beautifully rendered in a 'gothic urban fantasy' art style. His choice in wardrobe for every human (Light's honor student apparel, L's slob savant look), the gorgeous otherworldly designs of the Shinigami, the tantalizing realism of the settings, the simplicity & clarity in the action, and even the very faces + bodies of the characters all tie together to perfectly portray just what is going on. It gets even better when Ohba crosses over into the mental ruminations and monologues of certain characters, with brilliant symbolism and an even more distant feeling in how it's rendered.

TL;DR If you're gonna read it for one reason, read it for the art.

[Character - 7]

This is probably the one aspect of the manga that I have the most different emotions about compared to my first foray. It's still pretty solid, but I can see some of the cracks start to show.

I'll try to keep the positives short since everybody and their mother has sung praises about it: Light Yagami's transformation from a diligent, yet bored, student to the maniacal, yet arrogant, Kira is so fascinating to see no matter how many times you go through it. It's especially helpful that you're shown every step he takes towards reaching this persona, and the steps he takes following this apex. L is the perfect foil for Light: While he's quite the match for him, and possibly the only person who could be, he's outright ambiguous about what he has in store. This moral ambiguity in our designated antagonist greatly helps depict the core theme of Grey vs. Gray Morality. While a lot of people might not like them, Near, Mello, Misa, and Mikami serve as both great foils for L/Light AND as people who genuinely contribute to the themes and plot occurring. Near, in particular, is somebody I adore; In my honest opinion, he's not just an 'L expy', as some may decry, but a deconstruction of what L WAS when it came to certain traits such as his ambivalence towards people and general moral ambiguity (shared with Mello). Couple this with sprinklings of originality such as an absurd fixation with toys reflecting a state of boredom (and innate youth) and a similarly dishevelled appearance, and you have one of my favourite characters in the whole medium.

However, with these positives, I've found that I have certain issues with how people are written here. For starters: While I don't quite demand that EVERYBODY be reasonably fleshed out, I would have liked to see more development for supporting characters that AREN'T Soichiro or Matsuda. I do recall a few minor characters receiving some, such as Aizawa and certain Yotsuba members, but they usually don't get a lot. I attribute this to the focus on our core cast and the games they play, but I would have liked to see some peripheral development to see how the plot and themes might impact people outside of this inner circle of sorts.

Another issue I have is rather spoilery, so I'll have to be rather vague: Light's actions in the endgame. It just seems odd that he wouldn't have accounted for such twists to have occurred, even if he was enveloped in the hubris he would have inevitably developed. Speaking with the perspective of Matsuda's theory in the final chapter to be at least partially true, it's especially baffling when you consider that he was able to still contact Mikami preceding the series of events that kickstart the endgame. I'm still okay with how the finale turned out in terms of dramatic appeal, but it gets frustrating to dwell on when you start to think about the logic behind how it arrived to that point.

More issues that I have, but are more nitpicky, are: Misa's apparent lack of growth even taking her comedic value into account + her actions in the endgame, Mello somehow not predicting how /THAT/ would have happened, and a lack of insight save for one great chapter into Mikami's POV.

[Enjoyment/Overall - 8]

To restate the opening lines, it was still enjoyable to go through this modern manga classic again after so many years of not engaging with it and having matured a bit more. I would recommend this to absolutely anyone, whether they be a newbie to animanga, an experienced consumer who hasn't touched it somehow, or even a veteran who has gone through it once or twice. I guarantee you'll find something new to think about because of it, whether or not you like it all that much.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice0Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
1Show lessOpenGift

Mar 1, 2021
nigihayam1
Recommended
hauntingly intricate and beautifully suspenseful.

i absolutely enjoyed the shit out of this manga. from the quirky characters, to the scary shinigami's - i loved every moment. the bit where (SPOILERS!) L died, was so shocking yet so melancholic, i had to stand up and take a break to breathe.

in my mind i was like, "maybe if the circumstances were different, L and light would have been good friends." that thought bugged me throughout the entire reading of the manga. the more i thought of it, the sadder i became. maybe light did consider being friends with L, for just a split second, maybe. but evidently that never happened.

the ending of death note was gut-wrenching. the moment ryuk wrote light's name, or should i say, kira's name, in the death note - was another shocking moment. it was a punch to the face, kira really was going to die. i say kira because there was no redemption for light, he became a victim to the death note and had to pay the price. light had his entire future ahead of him, but this one thing ruined it all.

no matter how smart you think you are, you can never escape your sins - the result of that, death.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice0Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
1Show lessOpenGift

Aug 17, 2010
awsum_rose
Recommended
This was an incredible manga!! I loved it and i think anyone would love to read this anime. The suspense is incredible! i found myself trying to skip some pages but every page was so important to the story and you will regret it if you skip a volume. there is always something going on. you will love the suspense and thrill it will give you.

The story is awesome you never know whats gonna happen next. the art is outstanding its just so modern yet new the way the characters are drawn. The characters are awesome you just have to love all of them. there all so different with their own personality and their backgrounds are incredible. i just loved this manga it WAS AWESOME!!!
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice2Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
2Show lessOpenGift

Dec 6, 2008
figure8life
RecommendedPreliminary (28/108 chp)
since this series is written by the same person who wrote Hikaru no go i thought i would give this series a whirl. I was surprised to find a array of compelling characters who who at once enthrall and disgust you. Raiko a boy who meets a shinigami and wields the power to kill just by writing down a name in a notebook, sounds cool but at the same time you have to think about the terrifying power that this boy commands. Though out this series you follow one boys journey to eradicate crime by killing those who commit them with the police hot on his trail. This series really does make you think but at the same time gives you the action you've been craving for. enjoy reading this series. Sorry but i am not to good at writing, my apologies
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice2Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
2Show lessOpenGift

Oct 2, 2018
RustyPenny
Recommended
I watched the anime before I read the manga, and I suggest you do the same.

The level of voice acting, along with the outstanding soundtrack just makes this manga SO much better.

Don't get me wrong, there's nothing wrong with the manga. They're equal as far as enjoyment is concerned. But, I feel like if you enjoy reading manga more than watching anime, then you might just enjoy the manga a LOT more if you watch the anime first.

When it comes to the mind battles, you can hear L's or Kira's theme play in the back of your head as you read... It's really an amazing thing. Never experienced it before besides with Attack on Titan.

Now, we'll get onto the story.

The best part of this series is up until chapter 58. Then it starts to die down until the very end, which, (imo) is well worth the wait. The ending is very intense, and very good. But the actions leading up to the end were quite tedious and boring, I must say. (Even though, I do like Near)

I am rating this an 8.5 for in-case you actually read it BEFORE the anime, but if we were taking it into consideration that you watched the anime first, i'd give it a 9. The manga and anime differences are slight, but I do enjoy the manga a little bit more, however without hearing their voices or the music in my head, I would say I enjoyed the anime a bit more. If you understand my confusing analogy lol.

Check it out, it's great.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice2Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
2Show lessOpenGift

Feb 21, 2009
Banquos_Ghost
Recommended
The first thing you wonder about when you start to read DEATH NOTE is whether the stories main protagonist is good or evil. After reading a bit further you realise that your suppoesed to keep guessing right till the end.

DEATH NOTE was the first manga I read the entire way through and I will continue to re-read it over and over, till the day I die.

The story of DEATH NOTE is a detective story that runs over the course of about seven years. However, it has a edge-of-your-seat speed and danger about it that is strangely alluring. Tsugumi Ohba has managed to weave a tale with many twists and turns that you don't expect until it's right there on the page in front of you.

Takeshi Obata's artwork begins very well. Then gets better. It is perfectly dark and worrying, and the Shinigami (Death Gods) almost look as if you could meet one in reality. But it is at the end where the imagery is most powerful and amazing.

The most important part of DEATH NOTE is it's characters. All of them are well developed from their unveiling. Even some of the characters that are only in three or four frames seem to have been created with the same love as the main characters.

DEATH NOTE is enjoyable for almost any body in their teens and onwards through adulthood. It can be (and has been) enjoyed by all ages, all genders, race, religion and political preference. And always will be.

Overall, this series' excellence speaks for itself and has paved the way for an Anime and Film adaption as well as a prequel novel. No one can really say how good this series is. The reader must judge for themself.

And more often than not, they judge it wonderfully.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice4Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
5Show lessOpenGift

Aug 23, 2010
xGothimisalolix
RecommendedPreliminary (80/108 chp)
Deathnote has a unique storyline although it seems similar to all the others, save the world from criminals and bring peace however Light's way has got a way of getting into are minds, there is an morality battle raging in the readers mind, would you consider it ethical to use the note to end the lives of those who destroy and torment other peoples lives, could use the note to kill someone you deeply and truely despise or to kill someone in a jealous rage. Also can you kill a criminal who for all you know could be innocent.

Light and L go into a deep cat and mouse game and to me Light's way of bringing peace is a little mad (hehe). Ryuk the Shinigami is a delightful character that brings in the subtle humor that helps to balance out the dark and evil genre of the series (he's got big eyes too!). The one thing that I dislike is the fact that you didn't get many opinions of this mass murder case by the police and FBI, only one person showed that they agreed with Light's idea and this was met with disapproval.

Overall a great occult/thriller classic which I think doesn't deserve it's 16+ rating because of it's total lack of violence then again I don't think that kids of 13 could take death on a massive scale.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice4Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
5Show lessOpenGift

Mar 7, 2014
TheRealTHEDragon
Recommended
I began reading this series, thanks to a friend, when it was still being translated. As soon as I picked it up I couldn't put it down! I spent an entire week going to the book store after a day at college just to read another volume!

I was pretty broke back then and couldn't afford to buy the series, but even after I'd finished it I was surprised and stoked when a 13th appeared! By then, I'd bought the whole series and I had to have it too (even if it's not a story volume) and I was pleased as punch to discover L's true name! (sorry, no spoilers here)

I've read and re-read this series countless times and it is still one I wouldn't mind being caught reading!
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice4Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
5Show lessOpenGift

Aug 29, 2025
_Bubassotto_
Recommended
The best investigative work I've ever read.

After rewatching parts of the anime, I became interested in reading the manga, so I bought the physical Brazilian version and will base this review on that version.

The story: The story at the time was completely different from anything I'd seen before, with a world similar to ours, but with the existence of shinigami, these beings completely alter the course of this universe. The lack of focus on the shinigami world doesn't affect the main narrative; quite the contrary, it intensifies the main story. The lack of information about the shinigami world increases the supernatural fear we feel about these beings. The construction of the narrative based on the rules imposed in this world is simply brilliant; no one can deny that. There is a world of investigative narrative before Death Note and a world of investigative narrative after Death Note!

The art: ABSURD. There's nothing more to say than that; it's simply stunningly beautiful. The page layout, character designs, and biblical references in the artwork are wonderful to behold.

Having highlighted these two main points, let's get to the reason I gave it a 9. My rating was a 9 and not a 10 for one simple reason: the ending of Death Note. There, we have problems with two characters in particular, Mello and Near. They have good character development but can't counter L's charisma, and this is something that seriously undermines the work's ending. This is so true that there's a live-action Death Note film that addresses what would have been the ending of the work before the author was "forced" to continue the story. In this ending, Mello and Near don't even appear. I think if they followed this ending, my rating would have been a 10. Even though the Death Note universe would have become smaller, I still think it would have been a more worthy ending to Kira and L's rivalry.

Anyway, I strongly recommend reading the manga because it's very entertaining (despite being a .png bible lol).

=================================================================================================================Versão em Português=====================================

A melhor obra de investigação que li.

Após rever partes do anime , tive o interesse em ler o mangá, com isso comprei a versão física brasileira dele e me basearei nessa versão para essa review.

A historia: A historia para época era uma coisa totalmente diferente do que ja tinha visto, com um mundo similar ao nosso porem com a existência de shinigamis, esses seres já alteram totalmente o curso desse universo, a falta de foco no mundo dos shinigamis não é algo que afete a narrativa principal, muito pelo contrario, isso até intensifica a historia principal. A falta de informação sobre o mundo dos shinigamis é algo que aumenta o temor sobrenatural que sentimos desses seres. A construção da narrativa com base nas regras impostas nesse mundo é algo simplesmente genial, isso ninguem pode negar, existe um mundo de narrativa investigativa antes de Death Note e um mundo de narrativa investigativa após Death Note!

A arte: UM ABSURDO. Não há o que dizer além disso, simplesmente um absurdo de linda, o enquadramento das paginas, os designes dos personagens e as referencias bíblicas nas artes é maravilhoso de se ver.

Ressaltado esses dois pontos principais, vamos ao motivo da minha nota ser 9. Minha nota foi um 9 e não um 10 por um simples motivo, o final de Death Note, nele temos problemas com dois personagens em especifico, Mello e Near, eles tem um desenvolvimento de personagem bom mas não conseguem combater o carisma que o L tem na historia e isso é algo que abala muito o final da obra. Esse fato é tanto que existe um filme live action de Death Note onde aborda o que seria o final da obra antes do autor "ser obrigado" a continuar a historia, nesse final Mello e Near nem aparecem, creio que se seguissem esse final minha nota seria 10, por mais que o universo de Death Note ficasse menor, ainda acho que seria um final mais digno para a rivalidade de Kira e L.

Enfim, de todo modo recomendo fortemente que leiam o mangá pois é muito divertido (apesar de ser uma biblia .png kkk).
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
