Best anime for beginners: 

1. Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood
Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood - Ed & Al Screenshot
Genre: Dark Fantasy, Adventure, Steampunk
Length: 64 Eps.
Studio: Bones

If you want to get someone hooked on anime, you can’t go wrong with Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood.

It follows brothers Ed and Al Elric. After a failed attempt at bringing their mother back to life through alchemy backfires, costing Ed an arm and a leg, it also leaves Al a body-less soul chained to a set of armor.

Sounds crazy right?

Well now they’ll travel the world learning more about alchemy and hunting down the Philosopher’s Stone – a magical artifact with enough power to bring back their lost bodies.

This show will satisfy all kinds of viewers thanks to its emotional themes, intriguing world-building, and fantastic battles.

There’s also some mystery and political intrigue thrown in for good measure. Just a great anime hands-down, and certainly great for beginners looking into the genre.

2. Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba
Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba anime
Genre: Dark Fantasy, Adventure
Length: 26 Eps.
Studio: Ufotable

After most of his family is murdered by bloodthirsty demons, young Tanjiro begins a journey to protect others from suffering the same fate.

The show is full of lovable characters and a setting that draws you further in the more you watch it – but the anime’s most remarkable achievement has to be its visual effects.

The special techniques wielded by demons and those who hunt them are out-of-this-world.

Along with Attack on Titan, Demon Slayer is one of the most effective methods to turn people into anime enthusiasts. Absolutely a must-try if this premise sounds enticing at all. You’ll know if you like it from the first episode.

3. Psycho-Pass
Psycho-Pass anime screenshot
Genre: Crime, Cyberpunk, Psychological Thriller
Length: 41 Eps.
Studio: Production I.G.

In a not-so-distant future, a complex A.I. known as the Sybil System is developed to measure people’s mental states and assign them a numeric value.

People past a certain level of “stress” are labeled “latent criminals” by the system, which judges them as a danger to society.

As a newbie Investigator for the Bureau of Public Safety, Akane Tsunemori will have to work with Enforcers – former officers whose jobs made them into latent criminals – to solve cases and protect the peace, understanding the dark side of the Sybil System in the process.

The show’s gripping storyline and psycho-thriller elements are perfect for fans of shows like Mindhunter and Criminal Minds.

4. Fate/Stay Night: Unlimited Blade Works
Fate/Stay Night: Unlimited Blade Works anime
Genre: Fantasy, Battle Shounen
Length: 26 Eps.
Studio: Ufotable

The Fate series began in 2004 as a Visual Novel by Type/Moon that quickly grew into a media empire after an anime adaptation of its main “route” hit the screens in 2006.

The original adaptation hasn’t aged well.

But studio Ufotable did a terrific job of animating Unlimited Blade Works, an alternate route focusing on a different heroine.

It follows Shirou Emiya, a Japanese high school student trying to survive the Fifth Holy Grail War – a conflict between seven mage Masters commanding heroic spirits of the past like Hercules and Gilgamesh.

It’s full of action, exciting battles, some mystery, and even a little bit of romance.


5. Attack on Titan
Attack on Titan anime preview screen
Genre: Action, Dark Fantasy, Mystery
Length: 65+
Studio: Wit Studio + MAPPA

Attack on Titan became a worldwide phenomenon after the first episode aired back in 2013, mostly thanks to its unique setting and bold storytelling that’s not afraid to kill off main characters.

The show is set in a post-apocalyptic future where humanity can only exist within three massive walls protecting them from the Titans – giant humanoid creatures that prey on humans.

After a colossal titan kicks a hole in the first wall, teenager protagonist Eren Yeager decides to join the military’s Scout Corps and find a way to fight back against the Titan threat.

Attack on Titan has proven itself to be irresistible to anime newcomers.

And its widespread appeal makes it a safe bet for anyone who can stomach a bit of animated blood.

 