
More Reviews

Jan 25, 2010
tazillo
Recommended
First of all, I have seen the original FMA and although it was very popular and original, the pacing and conclusion did not sit too well with me. Brotherhood is meant to be a remake of the original, this time sticking to the manga all the way through, but there were people who thought it would spoil the franchise. That myth should be dispelled, as there's only one word to describe this series - EPIC.

I admit that as I've seen the original and read the manga, the pacing of Brotherhood seems to start off being VERY fast (I finally got used to the pacing after watching the first fifteen eps or so). Events that took up half a volume of the manga and had spread though a few episodes of the original anime were now shown in just a single episode. However, after trying to look at it from the perspective of someone who's new to FMA (not comparing it to the manga nor the original), I believe that the pacing works and it manages to tell an intriguing story effectively with little confusion. The plot is full of clever ideas and unpredictable twists that link various parts of the story together. By the final episode, all loose ends are neatly tied up and what's left is a hugely satisfying epilogue.

The animation in FMA Brotherhood is crisp and very well done (although it does sometimes dip a bit in quality). Compared to the original FMA it's a bit simpler but that's just because the original set a very high standard to follow. The facial emotions of the characters are also perfectly presented. The action scenes are brilliant and VERY well animated, with a variety of alchemy techniques and other talents being displayed nearly every episode. The various battles are consistently exciting to watch, but somehow get even better towards the end of the series.

The voice acting is of an excellent and consistent quality, and I think that pretty much all the characters have voice actors which suit their personalities. The majority of the openings/endings are a pleasure to watch due to fantastic animated sequences and theme songs. The background music which play during the episodes usually fit very well with the situation, although some tracks seem to be overused a little at first. This becomes less of a problem as the series progresses, with plenty of new music being introduced to support the story as it reaches the finale.

Moving on to the characters (best thing about this series), the original FMA focussed mainly on Ed and Al and on their struggles to regain their bodies, whereas Brotherhood also explores other characters to great detail at the same time. The majority of the spotlight is still on the two brothers, but it highlights their interactions with new characters which were not present in the original anime. New characters include a group of people from Xing (a neighbouring country), another person from the Armstrong family (who I think has become one of the coolest members of the supporting cast), and a new main antagonist. For me, the Xingese characters in particular (Ling Yao and Mei Chang among others) provide a new dimension to the FMA world, by showing us a different culture to the militaristic one we're familiar with. I think the new antagonist is an improvement on the original FMA, as this person has a much stronger and clever link to the Elric brothers' father. Returning characters from the original FMA, such as Mustang and Scar, are much more awesome and developed due to the fact that Brotherhood is 100% faithful to the manga. Plus, Winry Rockbell now has a much more active role in the story. I can say for sure that this anime has one of the best main/supporting casts I've ever seen, and you'd probably find it difficult to label any of the recurring characters (whether they are good or evil) as being either boring or unnecessary in terms of the storyline.

One of the many good things about this series is that there has been absolutely no filler at all (yes, I'm thinking of Naruto, Inuyasha, etc), which prevents the story from losing momentum. All the episodes are concise and every scene is important as part of the huge plot. The dialogue fully explains everything and is straight to the point. As multiple characters are explored there are lots of side stories, but these are all perfectly intertwined with the main story of the Elric brothers and more often than not directly influence their journey too. Like most anime series, there are things from the manga which have been left out, but these are usually just restricted to comedy moments. There has been one episode which shows a lot of flashbacks of events so far, but that's forgiven as it shows the most epic moments of the series, and also provided us with some history on the father of the Elric brothers.

FMA Brotherhood will be sorely missed now that it's finished. It is excellent in every aspect and has very little, if anything, that can be called a flaw (maybe rushed character development at first due to the fast pacing, but this quickly subsides). Each episode feels like it's too short, a testimony to how much it draws you in to the story and characters. There are moments which leave you smiling, laughing, sad and simply amazed. Try this anime, it's recommended for absolutely everyone, to newcomers and to those familiar with Fullmetal Alchemist.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice4192Love it Love it68Funny Funny61Show all
4368Show lessOpenGift

Apr 7, 2015
ChrissyKay
Mixed Feelings
Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood gets an immense amount of praise in the MAL community. Now this is just the opinion of one guy. I'm certainly not the law of the land or anything. However, I personally feel as though calling FMA:B a masterpiece and the champion of all shows is a bit of a stretch. That's not to say that I didn't enjoy it or that it isn't a very solid addition to the ranks of notable shows; I really would like to preface this review by saying that I believe that FMA:B is a very good show and I wouldn't be nearly as harsh on it if it weren't for the God status the show has attained in America. I would happily remand "greatest show ever made" to "greatest long-running shonen ever made if you haven't seen the 2011 Hunter X Hunter"

I'm not a huge fan of the MAL categorical rating system, as I've mentioned in some of my previous reviews. I oftentimes outright ignore it. However, looking at the categories right now, I feel as though this is one instance where I can use it to talk about everything I want to so I'm going to use it.

STORY: 8

The FMA:B plot and world-building are some of its strongest aspects. The world that it creates is an immersive, full-feeling thing with many animate pieces that move even when you aren't looking at them. It's an extremely creative world as well, adopting its own set of universal laws including alchemy through equivalent exchange, mind-body duality and its own interpretation of a higher power, and it sticks by these laws. Never once does the story contradict its own rules, instead using them in creative ways to build off of each other. The plot is also one of the most engaging parts of the show, unveiling itself at just the right pace to keep you interested whilst still keeping a few major cards to play at the very end. The pieces fall into place in a way that is satisfying because it simultaneously mind-blowing and obvious, and that's one of the marks of strong storytelling.

While the FMA:B story is certainly one of the best I've seen, I find that I have to withhold my 10 score here on the grounds that its incredible direction and creativity are marred by some detrimental weaknesses. First of all, the exposition is handled extremely poorly. The first and third episodes feel like they're from some shitty cartoon network show, the show blatantly ignores the show-don't-tell rule in the entirety of its first chunk (with characters spelling out exactly what is happening and why it's happening) and its tendency to repeat important plot points over and over again quite frankly feels insulting to me as the audience as though the show is assuming I'm not able to pay attention or figure things out for myself and need to have the fact that Ed and Al committed the sin of human transmutation and lost their bodies told to me at least twenty-five times in the first two hours of show. Secondly, there's a period of time which I would probably refer to as the third fourth of the show (episodes 40-53ish) in which the show drags incredibly, adopting a typical battle-shonen approach of having characters engage in multiple-episode long one-on-one or two-on-one battles, giving them plenty of time to pose and stand off and monologue at each other. This isn't how fighting or war works, and these contrived battles really take away a lot of the climactic atmosphere. Finally, the show's ending is not nearly as satisfying as I wish it had been. The final few episodes are for the most part brilliant, but once the show plays all its cards and it's resolution time, it wraps itself up with cliches and in-your-face themes.

ART: 8

The art is absolutely astounding 80% of the time and absolutely horrid 20% of the time. Thus the 8 score. The action is all stunning, the openings gorgeous, the backgrounds consistent and unique, building a sense of a real lived-in world. The character designs are sometimes a little bland, but for the most part they are memorable and the homunculi look brilliant so I don't have any real complaints there.

What I have a problem with is the obnoxious number of times that the show goes "anime" - reducing its characters to shittily-drawn caricatures and its animation to blocky, looped motion. Usually this is used during the shows attempts at humor, which I'll talk about later, but most of the time it was just extremely cringe-inducing and distracting, ruining the sense of continuity and immersion in this world. The show obviously wants you to take it seriously (it sure loves its drama) and when Al is portrayed as a big grey mound with a squiggle for a mouth it makes this difficult. There's a difference between having your character goof around and having the show itself goof around. It almost feels like a laugh-track, telling the audience "this is the funny part!"

For the most part, however, the art is gorgeous. When it counts, it shines, and that's really what matters.

SOUND: 10

Undeniably the strongest aspect of the show. I have no complaints whatsoever. The soundtrack is never distracting but always effective, the voice-actors (especially for Bradley and Al) absolutely nailed it and the openings and endings... dear lord. It's been said before, but the openings and endings to FMA:B are some of the very best ever made, both in sound and visuals. They tell small stories of their own. They set the tone for the episode and for their section of the show as a whole. I especially loved 'Golden Time Lover' and 'Chemistry', but I have to give special mention to SID's 'Rain'. As far as I'm concerned, that opening could have been the end of the show. It single-handedly established a sense of finality, a long-endured struggle of these characters and their causes. Everyone is portrayed as exhausted, weak and full of both despair and determination: protagonist and antagonist alike, fighting under the rain. Not for glory, not for honor, but just for the one thing they care most for. Personally, it made me extremely hyped for the final stretch of the show. It wasn't quite what we got, but at least we got some of it.

I believe that there is an intense connection between a show's opening and the audience's willingness to appreciate it. It is very likely that the intensity of many fanbases is in part due to the ability that openings such as these have to maintain feelings in regards to the show, oftentimes perhaps even distorting or altering memories of the show itself into what the opening would have you believe the show was like rather than what it was actually like. Obvious examples that jump to mind are Sword Art Online's "Courage" and Guilty Crown's "My Dearest". Remember how those shows were absolutely nothing like that? No?? IT'S TOO LATE FOR YOU

But I digress.

CHARACTER: 6

I would definitely call out the show's characters on being the weakest link and the most undeserving of the praise that the show receives. For starters, the writing is often clunky and awkward, but that's not the main issue. It's because most of them are not really characters: they're plot devices with one or two distinguishing traits tacked on. They're entirely predictable, not because they feel like real people but because they do the same things over and over again. Al talks about what he'll do when he gets his body back. Ed talks about how they'll find a way and how they will atone for their mistakes and etc. It's not that it's melodrama: it's the fact that it's the SAME melodrama over and over again. It wasn't until sometime past episode 30 that Ed stopped sounding perpetually like a broken record and started to feel as though he were actually developing, but even then he was really just defined by his arc and not by any amount of complexity.

And that's the pitfall that so many of these characters fall into. If your character's only real traits beyond their development for the sake of the show are "hates being called short" and "hates milk" they're really more of a tool with some googly eyes stuck on to them. Other characters are even worse: Armstrong is manly. His sister is more manly. Mustang wants to be Fuhrer and avenge Hughes (he's even got this great relationship with Hawkeye that could have been seriously compelling if they ever had any real conversations about anything besides "we must overthrow the government" and "Hughes!" over and over again). Winry likes Ed and automail. Ling wants to be emperor. Now, FMA:B is a complex, busy show. I could understand if it didn't have the time to make these characters anything more than chess pieces for its grand and elaborate plot, giving them a few distinguishing traits because that's really all it can manage without dragging itself out immensely. But it DOES have the time: it has all the time it spends having Ed yell about being called short. It has all the time it spends having Armstrong pull of his shirt and yell about being manly. It has all the time it spends having Ed and Al talk about getting their goddamn bodies back over and fucking over again as though I would somehow manage to forget it. Ling passing out from lack of food. May fawning comically over Ed. Mustang is antisocial LOL. The same gags, over and over again, barely even rehashed in any original way. Not only do they become painful to watch, they devour all of the development that this shallow cast of characters could have had to make me actually invested in them. They're far too static, with most of them having a single change or revelation over the course of the show's 64 episodes in order to indicate that they have grown as a person. But a good character has so much more than that: what kind of music do these people listen to? Why? Who are their role models? Why? What books do they like? What are their favorite places to eat? What do they appreciate in the people they're close to?? What are their personal histories...

Oh wait, sorry! I didn't mean to ask that last one! Please, I take it back! NOOOOOOO...

Yeah so I forgot to mention something. Screw all that stuff about making these characters possess complex personalities, FMA:B has a better way to define them.

TRAUMA

Everyone who's remotely relevant has a traumatic backstory. It's a harsh world, sure. I get that. Here's the issue: people are introduced and then defined through their trauma. Now this isn't Angel Beats bad, where horrible things happen to perfectly innocent people for no reason. Most of the tragedy is partially a result of the decisions of the characters involved, and their resulting struggle is a combination of having to cope with the consequences and with themselves and their mistakes. However, this cannot be used as a SUBSTITUTE for character development. A supplement, sure, but I still remember in episode four when Ed and Al meet a state alchemist who literally introduces himself with something along the lines of "my wife left me because we were too poor" before he even tells them his goddamn NAME. Here, come on in! Take a seat! Would you like some sorrow pie or tragic backstory cake? We have plenty! Ed and Al's dad left, then their mom died, then they f*cking ripped their bodies apart. Winry's parents were murdered in cold blood. Mustang had to kill lots of people. Armstrong had to kill lots of people. Everyone had to kill lots of people. Scar watched everyone he loved get killed, and then had to kill lots of people. These are always the first things we find out about people, and then for the rest of the show they are defined almost exclusively by them. If anyone is overly happy and wholesome, it means something horrid is going to happen to them. It's basic emotional manipulation. Look at this adorable little girl and her dog! Dead. Look at this smiling, picturesque family! Husband dead. Dead. Everyone innocuously happy has to die or lose someone close to them. The more broken and internally conflicted you are, the safer you are. There's no need to pile more grief on Scar, so he's relatively safe.

Yes, the characters suffer from repeatable and preventable problems. They exist mainly to function as morals-in-a-bottle with gags tacked on to them. They're difficult to relate to, because all we know about them is whatever themes they embody and one or two dumb jokes. Ikuhara writes characters more personable than this, and his stories don't make sense on PURPOSE. I did give the characters a 6 though, and there are reasons for that.

First off, despite their lack of humanization the characters complete their tasks of being walking themes with relative effectiveness. This isn't anywhere near Log Horizon S1 bad. These characters are here for a reason, they represent something, and they represent those things well. Sure, they could have easily been better, but they fulfill their purpose and for that alone they are not failures. I will also give special mention to Scar, who, while still actively defined by his trauma was executed far more impressively than the other characters. This is probably in part because the show actually viewed him as morally ambiguous as opposed to just making the character FEEL morally ambiguous when there was really no doubt that the show wanted you to think this was a 'good guy' (*cough* Mustang)

Second off, there are some exceptions to the rule. Most of my complaints thusfar have been leveled at the shows protagonists. They are the ones that suffer from dismal repetition and blatant violation of show-don't-tell. Where the show does excel is with its antagonists. There are seven homunculi in the show, incarnations of the seven deadly sins, and they so utterly clobber their "good-guy" counterparts in terms of being engaging, personable subtle characters that it isn't even funny. Their intensive backstories are never shoved in your face, their apparent contradictions are given plenty of time to be uncovered by the viewer, and the deliciously ironic conclusions to their arcs are done tactfully. Many times I found myself actively routing for them because they were just so much more interesting and well-executed. I would happily watch an "Adventures of the Homunculus" spinoff cataloging the several hundred years most of them lived before the start of the series.

ENJOYMENT: 7

I was constantly gripped by the plot. I actively looked forward to the openings and endings. The art was oftentimes orgasmic. The homunculi made me want to start looking for ingredients to make a philosopher's stone with. However, I was constantly frustrated by the show's apparent lack of respect for its viewers and by its absolutely abysmal humor. I've already said it, but I don't know if I've driven home just how infuriating it is to have exposition repeated to you over and f*cking over again and how cringe-inducing it is when somebody violates the show-don't-tell rule at extremely tense and crucial moments. It actively snapped me out of the experience whenever Ed and Al had a conversation about getting their bodies back after the 5th time it happened, and when God literally spelled out for Ed that he had discovered the meaning of life I facepalmed hard. That's not how you do themes, man. That just comes off as preachy. That's something the show suffered constantly from: it felt incredibly preachy. It's character's speeches about the answers they had found to their struggles felt much more pointed at the audience than at anyone in the show they were talking to, and that bothered the ever-loving crap out of me. And have I mentioned the humor? For every joke the show has that lands, it tries about five others that fall on their face. As I've already mentioned, they're repetitive and used as a substitute for meaningful character interactions and development. It seems as thought the show is trying to use them as a counterbalance for its immense amount of melodrama, but instead they end up just ripping apart the tone and stagnating the story. Despite these gripes, I did overall enjoy the experience and felt that the positives did inevitably outweigh the negatives so I will happily give it a 7 for enjoyment.

OVERALL: 7

Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is not a masterpiece. It's a very respectable, unique, inspired and creative show and it's definitely a classic. I would happily recommend this to most people. However, don't go in with irrational expectations. It's enjoyable, it's engaging, it will definitely give you plenty to think about, but in my personal opinion it gets a little too much praise and a little too much hype. I probably would have enjoyed it more myself if I hadn't heard nothing but angelic worship for it before going into it. I formally apologize to any huge fans of the show that I may have offended: it's not by any means a bad show! I don't give out 7s all that lightly, believe me. This is merely an argument against FMA:B being the be-all-end-all of anime. Thanks for reading if you made it through that wall of text, and have a nice day!
Reviewer’s Rating: 7
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice2000Love it Love it29Funny Funny40Show all
2187Show lessOpenGift

Nov 15, 2010
Archaeon
Recommended
Adaptations have long been a thorn in the side of anime viewers, but not because they are inherently bad. No, the main problem has been that many studios have regarded the original work almost as an afterthought, and there are a number of shows that could have been wonderful if the writers had simply stuck to the original story.

One of the issues at hand seems to be ownership as producers, writers and directors all seem to want the work to be reflective of their style and perception, and in order to stamp their mark on a show they will makes numerous unnecessary changes or additions. Admittedly there are times when the adaptation supersedes the original work, but more often than not the result is at best a decent anime, and at worst utter twaddle.

And then there's the other side of the coin, where the anime adaptation sticks to the storyline set out in the original work. Normally one would expect these to be superior works, but in a strange irony this is not always the case. The problem with these types of adaptations is that the original work may not have been very good, or even have a suitable narrative, to begin with, and turning them into anime only seems to exacerbate their inherent flaws.

Fortunately, the Full Metal Alchemist franchise manages to steer clear almost all of these pitfalls. The problem is, there are no other anime that have so evenly split the viewing public's opinion between the two versions of the series. Unlike the 2003 adaptation, Brotherhood is a faithful representation of Arakawa Hiromu's hit manga, and while many fans of the franchise laud it as the best thing since sliced bread, there are a number who consider the original anime version to be the superior tale.

But we'll get to that in a bit.

Many people will already be familiar with the particulars of the story, and in a very real sense the common perception is well formed. Unfortunately, one of the problems with liking something too much is that one becomes blinded to its flaws, and while Brotherhood has very few noticeable ones where the narrative is concerned, this also serves to make them stand out.

The story is told in a very straight forward, no nonsense manner that is kind of refreshing given the penchant for filler episodes. The issue though, is that the content of the tale is much lighter in tone, much more typically "shounen" in its essence, than that of the first adaptation. One of the reasons for this is because the undercurrent of obsession amongst the main characters peters out towards the end of the story - a stark contrast to the ending in the first adaptation. Instead, these obsessive behaviours are effectively "de-humanised" by pushing them on to the non human characters.

There is a very clear sense that the plot is geared towards a more typical shounen standpoint and mentality, and while the whole still works very well as a story, one does have to wonder if the writers for the first adaptation didn't steal a march on Arakawa. It's possible that she had to change her idea of how the tale should develop because the first anime version took a much darker path than most other shounen franchises.

That said, the ending allows for a degree of catharsis that was missing from the first adaptation, and although there are some broad similarities between the two versions at times, in truth they are as different as chalk and cheese. As an added bonus this series is far less dependent on random comedic moments, and the difference this makes to the flow of the plot is palpable when the two versions are directly compared.

One big advantage that Brotherhood has is that the seven year gap has allowed for improvements in various aspects of production, and it shows in a number of areas. The animation is more fluid than before, although admittedly the difference isn't really obvious at first and only really appears during large scale action set pieces. The character designs will be very familiar to any fan, but are subtly sharper and more defined than in the previous series.

Interestingly enough, one of the biggest plus points for Brotherhood is actually its wealth of interesting characters.

As one would expect, a number of the characters from the first adaptation appear in Brotherhood, but there are also several who are notable for their absence as they do no appear in the manga. Instead, a horde of new characters appear throughout the course of the series, many of whom have their own goals, ideals and personalities. Indeed the biggest difference between the two versions is the sheer number of people who all seem to have some impact on the story.

For much of the series Edward and Alphonse Elric behave in a manner that many who have watched the first adaptation will find familiar, and one of the nice things about this is that familiarity is used to very subtly develop the pair into very different characters. The change in their personas happens very gradually, but by the end of Brotherhood one can see just how much growth the pair has undergone.

Strangely enough, the most interesting additions to the series are actually Yao Ling and Olivier Mira Armstrong (Alex Louis Armstrong's older sister - but without all the muscle flexing), two of the supporting roles. Yao Ling presents a strange dichotomy for the series to tackle, and while he doesn't develop as much as he possibly could have, this is offset by the moral and ethical dilemmas inherent in his situation towards the end of the series. On the other Olivier Armstrong possesses some of the strongest characterisation in the whole story, and while she is without doubt a major player at certain points of the show, what makes her interesting is the fact that the viewer is never quite sure of her goals.

There are a number of very strong characterisations in the series, but one of the things that is a little strange is the difference between the two versions where the homunculi are concerned. Unlike the first adaptation the homunculi in Brotherhood have very different origins, even though they still deal with similar obsessions. This raises an interesting perspective on the series as a whole, and is one of the reasons why Brotherhood is far more of a shounen tale than the original adaptation. The plot takes on a subtly lighter tone, even though it may not seem that way, once their origins are understood, and the main reason for this is the "de-humanisation" I mentioned earlier. The viewer is aware that these characters, though human-like in form, are not linked to humans in any way, and this awareness acts as a buffer so the viewer is less likely to question the actions and behaviour of the homunculi. In essence one is subjected to the ethos that monsters are evil and do bad things, which raises some interesting issues where Kimblee, Greed and the military's generals are concerned.

The quality of the acting is possibly the main reason why Brotherhood is able to pull off its feat of developing not only the familiar characters, but also the new additions. Paku Romi and Kugimiya Rie reprise their roles as Edward and Alphonse Elric, but with the exception of a few roles, the remaining cast are very different from the first outing. Now normally one might consider this a recipe for disaster, but it's a testament to the quality of not only the actor's abilities, but also the scriptwriters, that this series easily stands shoulder to shoulder with the original.

The music is very well composed and produced, and the series has a surprisingly large number of opening and ending themes, especially for 64 episode series. That said, fans of Brotherhood may find themselves in a bit of a quandary, especially if they prefer the OPs and EDs from the first series. As for the sound effects, they are handled in a decidedly competent manner that makes one wonder why other shounen anime seem to have trouble in this department. Granted there are occasions when there's a bit of a cacophony, but in general the effects are clear, bold, and well choreographed.

Now unlike most viewers, I actually consider Brotherhood to be equal to the first series, and I don't really fall on one side or another. Like a number of fans my preference is for the much darker tone of the first series, however the cathartic ending of Brotherhood, as well as the improvements in production and animation, go some way to balancing the scales. Some people prefer the somewhat darker nature to Ed's character from the first adaptation, but in all honesty the rationale behind the two versions is very different, and while they're broadly the same character, that perception is only really valid until the last few episodes of either show. The same principle applies to Alphonse, Roy Mustang, in fact to most of the characters.

That said, Brotherhood is just as entertaining and involving as its predecessor, and it's a testament to Arakawa's skill as a mangaka that she has been able to produce a tale that, at the very least, rivals the original anime adaptation.Yes, Brotherhood is more typically shounen than the other version, but the nice thing about this is that fans are given two very good versions of the same story, and that is something rare in anime.

Now if only all remakes, revisions or reboots could be this good.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice1463Love it Love it9Funny Funny19Show all
1527Show lessOpenGift


Jul 29, 2015
Monkey-King
Mixed Feelings
Since I couldn't find any legitimate analysis in any of these fanboy reviews, I decided put my own review:

Here's why FMA:B and its Manga counterpart don't work:

It's just a disjointed piece of art. The initial premise of the narrative: two young siblings that horrifically lose their mother and parts of themselves is incredibly dark and poignant. Their journey to find the philosophers stone is one that's adventurous, but the endpoint is still inherently adult and complex; especially as it delves into the implications of bringing a dead person back to life early on in the series.

So why is it disjointed? Because there's a mistranslation of tonal nuance throughout the entire series. Now I don't mean stylistic aspects such as art style choices e.g. Chibi segments (because those are minuscule details in the grand scheme of storytelling devices), but rather the way they're implemented in the story. For example, one second we're dealing with the introspective reconciliation of birth and how beautiful it is and the very next we drop it for side-gags just to transition into the next topic/character development. It just doesn't fit. It's formulaic. It's predictable storytelling at its finest and it absolutely ruins the pacing.

It's a huge shame because the character development and dialogue in the series is exquisitely written (e.g; Edward's speech about his existential crisis provided a deep psychoanalytical view into his personality and character). However it actually lessens the impact of the narrative and my personal enjoyment of the series because it contrasts heavily with the tone of the series. Right down to the very commercial transitions with the quirky voice-over of the title; every little stylistic choice is presented as a complete antithesis to the themes of the series.

Fullmetal Alchemist should NOT be sugarcoated with a light-hearted aesthetic. This is something I'd hate to say in any other series because pretentiously "dark and gritty" series (*cough* Tokyo Ghoul *cough*) are the bane of my existence but this is the one exception. If the themes of the series are of complex adult issues, why is the tone resorting to childish humour and quirky antics?

With all that being said, I totally understand why Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is considered one of the greatest Animes of all time because it is substantially provocative and complex behind the aesthetics much like many other great Animes like One Piece, Hunter X Hunger, Cowboy Bebop and Dragon Ball.

Personally, it just doesn't work from a narrative perspective because it feels disjointed and unfocused in the way it clashes with its stylistic choices. Through this loss of tone, the series becomes a chain of loose threads that are vaguely commentating on the overall themes of the narrative which is why I rated Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood and the Manga: 5/10.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice629Love it Love it13Funny Funny10Show all
721Show lessOpenGift

Sep 13, 2009
bakababe
Recommended
I can't even watch the original FMA anime now that I'm currently watching Brotherhood! This is a NO FILLER anime it gets straight to the point with it's beautiful animation and amazing portrayal of the manga, everything is so different! Emotions are strong and there's more of a connection between characters then in the original anime, you immediately get dragged into this show within the first 5 minuets, this is honestly one of the most spectacular anime's i've ever laid my eyes on, it's definitely one of the best new shows of the last couple years. Its a definite watch, don't miss out!
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice436Love it Love it1Funny Funny7Show all
446Show lessOpenGift

Mar 2, 2010
ryuu_zer0
Recommended
Now, this is a prime example of how to adapt an manga into an anime the RIGHT way. The original Fullmetal Alchemist, though well made and very popular, went into a downward spiral as soon as it diverted from the manga storyline and never seemed to recover. This however, shows that instead of trying to add their own story elements when adapting manga/visual novels etc., sometimes anime producers should just sit back and retell the great story that has already been written in the original.

This anime starts off at a breakneck pace. It shoots entire volumes of the manga in a couple of episodes. It was to be expected though, as Bones is trying to fit 100+ chapters of manga into a 1-year long series. However, once you get used to it the pacing seems very appropriate for the series and only seems to increase the suspense. While small elements have been omitted from the manga, these are mainly non-essential and have no impact on the story. Yet while many of these omitted elements are comedic in nature, Brotherhood still manages to switch between seriousness and comedy so fast you'll get whiplash. I quite enjoyed this particularly as a sort of trademark of the series. The actual plot-line twists and turns in unexpected ways and keeps you on the edge of your seat, and the climax grips you like no other. Many disregard the plot as being generically shonen, but it is these twists and its exploration into the psyche and motivation of the characters that propel it past this "generic shonen" label.

The art is of a different style to the original FMA. It is a little simpler, and comedic scenes sometimes even stray into an outright chibi style, but this is by no means a bad thing. If anything it is closer to the the style that Hiromu Arakawa draws with in the manga. What its lacking in detail, it makes up for with first-class fight sequences (as to be expected of Bones). The animation overall is quite polished and character movements are very fluid and natural.

The characters on both sides really caught my attention as one of this series' strengths. It boasts a diverse range of characters, all of which have considerable substance and a distinct purpose in the storyline. The Homunculi especially turn out to be completely different from the original Fullmetal Alchemist anime, and more awesome in my opinion. Edward and Alphonse are still the main focus of the story as they quest to find the Philosophers' Stone and restore their bodies, but now Winry also takes a more central role along with Ed and Al's father, Hohenheim. There is also a host of new characters which didn't feature in the first anime adaptation, including a few from the mysterious country Xing and a new main villain. Being completely faithful to the manga, all the characters' separate journeys and origins are told in much greater detail. Each character's values and beliefs are tested almost to breaking point as the story reaches its later stages, providing a somewhat surprising and refreshing depth to the cast.

The one thing I initially disliked about this series was the soundtrack, which lacked substance and was very repetitive. The first opening was brilliant, one of the best I have seen, but the background music was lacklustre. However, as the series went on more music was added and the soundtrack began to add a great atmosphere to fight scenes and dialogue alike. The voice actors also really show their ability throughout the series and seem very well suited to their roles. With such an all-star cast of voice-actors you wouldn't expect any less.

Overall Bones has done an awesome job surpassing its previous effort and faithfully retelling the Fullmetal Alchemist manga. Enjoyment wise, you'd be hard pressed to find a shonen anime that will entertain you as much as FMA Brotherhood. Truly a great anime, there's no other way to describe it. A must-see for people new to anime and hardened otakus alike. Overall score: 9.4/10 (rounded to 9).
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice274Love it Love it1Funny Funny6Show all
285Show lessOpenGift

Oct 27, 2014
Reimei-Chan
Recommended
"We're not gods, we're only human. We can't even save a little girl, so what good are we?"-Edward Elric

Now let's talk about the best rated show on this website. Ever since its release, fans and critics alike have a mixed reaction to the show. Some of them say that the original show is better while others say this is better. I can't see why we can't like both. They each have things that really work about them. I think they are both masterpieces on a entertainment and artistic level. Some moments in the show will make you laugh, then the next question life, and then cry your eyes out. Some moments in the show are just plain beautiful from the characters, animation, and the really touching moments. There are moments were some of the characters you get attached to die. (Not going to tell what characters because of spoilers, obviously.) A character will get super depressed, and one even almost goes insane. All of these characters express real human emotions unlike some other anime which they express one key emotion. The emotional scenes aren't forced, they have a really big impact on you as a person. You'll start to relate to every character and even question life. Some examples being "What is the truth?" or "Could humans play the role of god?" That's why I love this show so much. You'll start to look at the world in a different perspective after you watch this and the original show. Now shall we get to the review?

Story 10/10 Standout(s) The fantastic end to the series

If you want to know my original thoughts of the story, read my review of the original show. Anyway the end to this anime is one of the best endings I've ever seen in an anime. It was very beautiful and touching. This review is suppose to be spoiler free (In most cases.) So I can't tell you my thoughts of the ending. If you want more in detail of the ending, just ask me. Anyway, I can't talk about much about the story without repeating myself, so let's go to the art and animation.

Art and Animation 10/10 Standout(s) The animation

You can tell that they had a huge budget just by looking at a character. It was very solid and very easy on the eyes. This really shines in the well animated action scenes. They were just plain epic! What I didn't explain in full detail in my review of the original was the character designs. I didn't give enough praise for them, I just said they were creative and expressive, that was it. You can tell which character is who at first glance. That's a really hard thing to do for a 64 episode anime, but this show pulls it off very well. The character's have there own unique features that stand out among the rest. Now let's go to the sound.

Sound 10/10 Standout(s) The dub

The soundtrack really fit in with the anime. I mostly loved the music they played in the action scenes or when there was something bad going on. I found it very unique and weirdly fit with the tension of a scene. For the dub, most people consider it one of the best dubs out there and I don't blame them. The only difference between the dub for the original and the dub for this was Al's actor. Al's original actor, Aaron Dismuke, had too deep of a voice to play Al anymore. So they got Maxey Whitehead to play him. So was Maxey good as Al? She did a fantastic job in my eyes. When I saw the first episode, I thought that was the original actor. That's how good her performance was. If you want me to go in depth about the dub, read my review of the original. Now the one you've all been waiting for, the characters.

Characters 10/10 Standout(s) Every single one of them

This is my favorite character cast in any anime. They were all very entertaining in their own little way. If you want to hear me talk about Ed and Al, read my review of the original show. Let's just talk about Roy Mustang and Maes Hughes.

Roy Mustang:

On the outside, Roy seems like the calm, collected, and cool guy. On the inside he values the lives of his comrades like Riza Hawkeye and Maes Hughes. If one of them were to die, he would just be sad for the rest of his life. He also has a temper that sometimes gets the best of him. This is a guy you don't want to mess with. He'll burn you to death with his flame alchemy. What makes Roy such a good character is that he'll protect those he values with all his heart. He does have a few weaknesses too, you can't have a good character without his or her faults. Like I said, his temper and the fact that if you were to kill one of his friends, he would vow to kill you no matter what and won't forgive you. He doesn't forgive his enemies that easily. Overall, Roy is defiantly one of the best characters in this anime.

Maes Hughes:

Hughes may seem like the comic relief when you first meet him, but he has more of a personality then that. He is kind, outgoing, and an overall funny person! It's kind of weird how him and Roy get along so well. Hughes is more fun and loud while Roy is more calm and collected. He loves so many people and almost doesn't hate anyone. He loves his daughter and his wife. There's even a few jokes about them in some of the episodes. It feels like his family is the military, his real family, and the Elric brothers. He made a huge impact on the audience for reasons I won't spoil. Overall, a fun guy and a great character!

Enjoyment 10/10

People who will love this show: Everyone, especially fans of the manga.
People who won't like this show: I don't know who wouldn't like this.

Overall 10/10

Positives: Everything
Negatives: None

This is defiantly one of the best animated shows of all time. It's amazing how many things you'll learn in this anime. It taught me all sorts of things about life. I am in love with this series. Great anime and deserves a 10 from everyone. So watch it if you haven't.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice257Love it Love it1Funny Funny4Show all
265Show lessOpenGift

Oct 9, 2009
Rurouni_Tidus
RecommendedPreliminary (26/64 eps)
This review is only meant for those who haven't seen the original anime version of Fullmetal Alchemist.
What can I say about this show? I never even tried to follow the original anime.. I knew it was a big success and has a lot of followers everywhere. But it just didn't catch onto me like it did with so many others. With this renewed version, which follows the manga storyline a lot more precise than the first version, the team behind FMA: Brotherhood did a fantastic job.
The characters are instantly attractive.. what I mean with that is they are very well portrayed as people, unlike so many other anime shows. The story is also instantly compelling.. it drops you right into the world of FMA and does a thorough job of explaining to you how things work. And as far as I've seen, the story never gets repetitive or old. As soon as you finish one episode.. you'll force yourself to watch the next.
The voice actors are another major plus. The sheer talent of many of them is just unbelievable. I especially liked the fact that the voice actor who did (among others) Kira/Yagami Light's voice in Death Note, Mamoru Miyano. Does the voice for Ling Yao, which makes his character even more intriguing.
If FMA Brotherhood keeps up this kind of pace, quality and plot development, then I'm definitely going to add it to my 'All-time-favourite-anime' list.
A must see!
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice214Love it Love it1Funny Funny1Show all
222Show lessOpenGift

Dec 16, 2015
BaconKingpin
Not Recommended
Full metal alchemist brotherhood the anime that has been called a masterpiece for so many years well to day I'm here to tell you my thoughts on that.Many people feel this way because it strictly follows the manga but just because an anime follows the manga doesn't necessarily mean its good.

Full metal alchemist brotherhood is about 2 brothers Edward and alphanse Eric. After attempting to bring their mother back from the dead using human transmutation Edward lost his arm and leg while al lost his entire body and had his soul sealed inside a suit of armor the two brothers set out to find the philosopher stone hoping to get their bodies back to normal.

Story- Now I will spoil some of the story in this review. FMAB started off pretty good then I realized a lot of stuff was not being explained the pacing was getting more and more shitty. Now many people say FMAB has a amazing story and its a masterpiece well It might've started off like that but it slowly evolved into a save the world from the big bad villain with a god complex kind of story. Now some parts in the story were very suspenseful and had my full attention. Then some parts of the story were really boring and I found myself zoning out continuously. The story had some really grasping scenes like when Hughes was murdered and when the guy with the blonde hair who loves to smoke(forgot his name lol) was stabbed in the back and was paralyzed for the waist down for the rest of his life and when Roy mustang flipped his shit and roasted Envy alive, those scenes were timed really well and caught me off guard. One thing FMAB did was focus on the drama to much which resulted in a shit ton of over dramatic scenes. Some of the dialogue was cliche and I couldn't stop fucking laughing because they were trying to be serious but I just couldn't take it serious, and I even started predicting some of the events in the story would happen. Anyway the story starts to go down hill and now the elric brothers new objective is to stop the bad guy who wants to obtain the power of god with them finding their bodies being their side quest. Then they have this cliche shounen ending where a seventeen year old kid beats the shit out of god. I mean this is just beyond cliche, the fight was good but i wasn't suprised because in the end i knew he would win. And the fairy tale happily ever after ending was disappointing to. They never explained the origins of alchemy clearly nor do they explain anything else clearly so I was left with a shit ton of questions but no fucking answers. The story just didn't pull me in and It felt like I was just watching your typical action anime the story wasn't shit it just wasn't a masterpiece like everyone said it was.

Animation / Sound : The Animation was pretty good the character models and the back grounds were well done and so was the animation and art for the alchemy. The fight scenes where pretty neat but nothing too flashy. The voice acting was A1 I thought the sound effects for the fights and explosions were done well to. The intros and ending were just mind blowing sometimes I would just go on YouTube and just watch and listen to the intros.

Characters: This is the weakest part of the anime.
Our 2 MCs Edward and Al do not change through out the whole series they remain the same naive little boys they were at the beginning hell the only thing that changed about Edward was his height he became taller as the series continued. Most the characters in FMAB get no development at all and some are just useless as fuck cough...cough... winry, now I don't dislike winry but sometimes she just annoyed the hell out of me and got in the way. The only characters in this show who got good development was Roy Mustang, Envy, crippled cigarette guy(forgot his name), hoenhime (I think I spelled it wrong), and Ling/Greed. Half of the villains on here are evil just for the hell of it and oh yeah the main villain with the god complex is called father he basically created the rest of the villains. Each of them are named after the 7 deadly sins and called homunculus. Apparently each villain represents a fragment of his soul you have
The homonculus were extremely shallow and were evil to be evil. I mean out of all seven only three shine and those three are Wrath, Greed, Envy. The rest are extremely uninteresting including father. If i had to compare him to a villain it would be Aizen from bleach.
Now out of all of these villains the most memorable was Envy because of his hatred of humans and his twisted personality he was very exciting to watch and his death was put together really well. Now back to the other characters Scar was very interesting at first but as the series continued he started to bore the hell out of me until I finally wasn't interested in him any more. Like I said before Roy Mustang got a lot of development he went from the cool and calm guy we know and love to a bloodthirsty animal obsessed over finding out who killed Hughes. Now full metal alchemist brotherhood has some interesting characters but failed to give them any development to the point where I didn't give a fuck if they died.

In the end by no means was FMAB a bad show no it was a good show that had a lot of potential but it failed to amaze me the unique story was ruined after a couple of episodes. I personally think this anime is overrated as fuck it wasn't bad its just overrated and it just didn't prove to be a masterpiece like everyone claimed it was , but in the end this is just my opinion . The funny thing is I watched this before the FMA 2003 version because everyone kept telling FMA 2003 was trash and the funny thing is I ended up liking 2003 more. Do i recommend this show No you might find your experience different than mine after all we are two completely different people but i don't recommend it bruh. Well I'm done i hoped you enjoyed this review Peace!!!
Reviewer’s Rating: 4
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice158Love it Love it20Funny Funny32Show all
255Show lessOpenGift

Apr 12, 2015
Malighos
Recommended
If one wishes to obtain something, something of equal value must be given, that is the law of equivalent exchange, the basis of all alchemy, the law that governs the world of Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood.

Brotherhood follows the adventures of brothers Edward and Alphonse elric , who have commited taboo and tried to transmutate their mother back from the dead. As a result alphonse is left without his body and stuck to a metal armor and ed with a metal arm and a leg thus the nickname fullmetal. Thus the two brothers embark on a quest to find the famous philosopher's Stone that is said to allow alchemists to ignore the law of equivalent exchange and help them get their bodies back. I will not go into more details because it will spoil the wonderfull story of the anime. Anyway let's get started.

As opposed to it's 2003 counterpart Brotherhood does not have filler episodes or sidestories, the manga being almost finished at the time the anime started. There were a few ovas and specials that came out towards the animes end or after it had finished but I am not counting those.But I have to say they managed to strike a perfect balance. Since it had all the source material it needed the anime does not feel stale,I think it goes on at a great pace and it manages to strike a perfect balance between fights, serious moments, light hearted ones . But if you are a big fan of the 2003 anime you might find this a bit too fast as some of the characters lack the development they had in the first series and you might not feel as attached to them as you were back then. Though personally I loved the pacing, as I never got bored and I got entangled in a wonderfull story that just kept dragging me in.

The art has greatly improved over its predecessor and even now it's way above your usual animes. The facial expressions are great and the battles, oh man they are going to give you a boner, even if you're a girl. Trust me. Though some people might be set off a bit by the fact that the animation style seems to change from battle to battle, but I think that increases it's quality as very rarely you will have the same two characters battling each-other thus each battle seems unique and fresh. I especially enjoy the ones that involve Wrath as man he is a beast.
The sound is great. I have watched the anime in jappanese thus that is the sound version I shall review.Romi Park and Rie Kugimiya reprise their roles as Edward and Alphonnes and deliver a top quallity performance yet again, but the rest of the cast is not going to let you down either as you can feel they actually enjoy voice acting these characters and that they give their all in their performance. Also I swear to god all the openings and endings are epic. I have all those songs on my playlist at the moment since god they are awesome and fit the show perfectly.

I also like the fact they Brotherhood doesn't do something a lot of anime do and by that I mean they do not spoil what will happen in the anime with the intro or outro because they are all custom made and not just scenes picked up from the anime to show off.

Now the greatest strength of the anime are its characters. The original series mostly explored just the two protagonists Edward and Al, but brotherhood manages to show off almost any character they introduce, their motives and their dreams. For example Roy Mustang and his dream to become the next Fuhrer to protect all his comrades or scar's dream first of revenge and later of change. As I said earlier some might characters might feel a bit rushed because of the fast pace of the anime (I'm looking at you hughes and nina) but I assure you it does not draw back from the story one bit as they still somehow fullfill their role.

The anime lacks a bit in the replay value, as you wil already know all the big reveals which will probably detract a little from the overall enjoyment for some, but I watched it multiple times (around once every one and a half years) and I found it refreshing most of the time.

Also if you want to watch the 2003 series you should do it before you watch Brotherhood for one simple reason. The 2003 anime is also a very solid addition to one's library but Brotherhood is the superior version in all areas and you might not enjoy the 2003 version as much if you watch it after brotherhood. Though if you watch the new series after the 2003 one you will definetly still enjoy it as much, if not even more, as opposed to watching it first.

Overall this will always be one of the most enjoyable animes I have ever watched, excelling in all areas with a very compelling story line, complex characters, astonishing art and epic soundtracks. I wholeheartedly recommend you go watch it right now, it is a classic and a must see for any anime enthusiast out there.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice197Love it Love it2Funny Funny1Show all
204Show lessOpenGift

Apr 17, 2015
bananapotato
Recommended
One of my favorite anime of all time!

I was one of those people who thought that FMA: Brotherhood is the second season of Fullmetal Alchemist (2003). FMA Brotherhood has been popping up in Best Anime Lists on Youtube so it piqued my interest.

It follows, or rather it is more parallel with the story in the manga. The art and animation is magnificent, it stayed true to the characters' design but there was a more polished look. The fluidity of the movements during fight scenes are also a feast for the eyes.

I could not find a single flaw in this series (except I that I wanted more episodes). The characters were all wonderfully written. It's hard to create secondary characters that are as strong as the main ones when it comes to viewers' attachments.

I found myself falling in love with these amazing characters while I was watching FMAB. It didn't matter if the characters were only shown for one episode, I'm looking at you Nina and Alexander. What mattered was the impact those characters gave. (Like a sledge hammer to the heart)

And the story, it's hard to find words to describe FMAB's story. The only thing I can think of is that it's magnificent. It's funny, action packed, mysterious heart wrenching and beautiful.

This is one of those anime that will leave you feeling empty after you finish it. And I mean that in a good way. I've invested so much emotions in this story, in these characters that when it's finally over it left me feeling lost. That is how amazing this is and I'm not just saying that. Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood is quite a masterpiece in my opinion.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice161Love it Love it2Funny Funny3Show all
170Show lessOpenGift

Apr 20, 2009
Aceofplaces
RecommendedPreliminary (2/64 eps)
I'll start this by saying that despite being an adamant fan of Fullmetal Alchemist for a couple of years now, I've never managed to finish the first anime series. I've remained caught up with the manga as much as possible, however, and I'm very excited at where this series is going to go.

Fullmetal Alchemist, as I'm sure you know, is the story of the Elric brothers, Edward and Alphonse. Their story begins a number of years before the actual start of the series, with the tragic death of the boys' mother. Edward and Alphonse, child prodigy alchemists at the time, form a pact to resurrect her. Extensive alchemical training finally culminates in the most important experiment of their lives; the forbidden practice of Necromancy. But something goes wrong.

Edward is forced to stare in horror as his brother is decomposed before his eyes. He is then whisked away to a mysterious location, where a strange entity reveals to him what the experiment lacked; the Philosopher's Stone. Edward is then returned to his home, where he discovers his brother still missing and his own leg gone. In an act of desperation, he sacrifices his own arm in order to preserve his brother's soul into a suit of armor. Events thereafter eventually culminate in a new mission for the Elrics; to procure the Philosopher's Stone and use it to recreate their own bodies.

Sounds like heavy stuff, right?

One of the best things about this series is that it manages to provide some great humor that actually fits quite nicely into its overall dark premise. There are some definite lighthearted moments, but never at the cost of plot, and they never take away from the genuinely touching or tragic scenes. The story itself is very enjoyable, and tends to explore some very deep themes, such as the ethics of resurrecting the dead and the effects of war on individuals and societies.

Storyline aside, this series is visually stunning. Every cell of animation is detailed enough to almost seem like live action, and the characters themselves, based closely on manga author Hiromu Arakawa's original designs, are positively beautiful in motion. Some may be slightly bothered by the atypical face structures, but I find that they range between unnoticeable and and an improvement over the original series'. The movement is fluid and natural to the point that the opening alone should be enough for any animation enthusiast to be satisfied.

Characters are very entertaining. The very best, as I can assure you from following the manga, are a bit down the road, but the cast as of two episodes in are more than enough to tide anyone over. Roy Mustang is the perfect blend of snarky and serious, with a bit of eccentricity thrown in that any fans of the original anime series should be well familiar with (Tiny Miniskirts will almost assuredly make an appearance in this series once more,) and Edward Elric's familiar short temper, large ego, comedic frustration and occasional moments of genuine caring blend together in what is shaping up to be even better than last time.

One interesting thing about this series is the very first episode. It chronicles the events of an incident in central involving Isaac McDougal, a State Alchemist turned rebel after the Ishbal War, also known as Isaac the Freezer for his water-based alchemy specialty. This was never a part of the original Manga, and indeed only invented to keep audiences from experiencing Deja Vu from the first series. However, it is of such high quality and entertainment value that calling it filler would be downright unfair. It sets the stage for the rest of the series wonderfully and lets you know right away that you're in for a wild ride.

In short, this is a series to stick with. It's already fantastic, and I can assure those of you who have never read the manga that it only goes up from here. A definite 10/10.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice147Love it Love it1Funny Funny1Show all
152Show lessOpenGift

Nov 12, 2011
ggultra2764
Mixed Feelings
I was dreading having to make my way through Brotherhood at some point considering my high regard for the first series and not really liking the manga adaptation's more conventional plot developments. But considering enough people were praising the daylights out of Brotherhood and some even boasting that the first series was no longer relevant, I decided to check things out for myself and see what got people giddy over this adaptation of the series. And after venturing my way through Brotherhood, I would have to say that those calling the first series irrelevant are ridiculous considering both titles have completely different takes on their source material and the handling of them that whichever series you prefer would depend on what you are looking for in an anime.

In Brotherhood's case, it takes the Fullmetal Alchemist manga and makes a more closer adaptation of the source material which is quite focused on world building and creating a grand scale plot coming out of the Elrics finding out details about the Philosopher's Stone and eventually finding out about a national conspiracy and heinous plot connected to the Homunculus and powerful figures in the Amestris military. This take on FMA does follow a more conventional plot than the first TV series as much of the complex characterization found with prominent characters in the original series is greatly toned down with Brotherhood creating a more plot-focused series and morality with many characters being more black and white as the series has more purely "good" and "bad" characters with the former being always right in their convictions within the series and the latter having no redeemable traits and being wrong in their actions. With me believing that good characters in an anime should be morally grey with flawed heroes and villains with redeemable traits, I wasn't digging Brotherhood's conventional take on characters.

Brotherhood did have some elements that I did get some enjoyment out of. With Brotherhood being more focused on world building and plot advancement, the series expands more on the world of the series than what the first series did by introducing more branches of the military and some other countries neighboring Amestris, particularly Xerxes and Xing. This also allows the introduction of some new characters in the series with several characters from Xing and within the military that Ed and Al befriend and ally with when dealing with the Homunculus and the conspiracy they uncover. In addition, some characters from the original series who were underdeveloped and not having much screen time (Hohenheim, Alex Armstrong and Roy Mustang's men being prominent examples) are given more focus in this series, get some moments of fleshing out and are given bigger roles to play.

Still though, there are enough issues I have with Brotherhood that outweigh the praises I give it above. The show's first 12-13 episodes run at a fast pace providing little time to connect with characters introduced and with the events of those episodes having been portrayed in the first series, Bones appeared to have intentionally sped through the events to get going with what wasn't covered by the first series. With Bones more closely following the manga's storyline for Brotherhood, these earlier episodes had featured a major flaw to FMA manga-ka Hiromu Arakawa's earlier chapters in that her fast advancement of events gave little time for emotional investment from readers in regards to how characters reacted to major events that shook their resolves as the lack of time and depth on plotting in earlier chapters did kill their quality to a great extent. With the slower pacing and greater character focus found in FMA's first series, Arakawa had adopted these elements to a degree with her storytelling in later chapters which helped improve the quality of her writing.

I also found myself getting quite irritated with the show's comedy getting in the way of more serious moments. This was quite prominent in Brotherhood's earlier episodes where moments of slapstick and characters going super-deformed killed the suspense of serious moments. While the series does tone down on these moments in later episodes as the plot gets darker and more serious, they still pop up on occasion and when they do, I still found them to be a mood killer during most scenes.

Despite the praises I gave for new characters and expanded depth on underdeveloped characters who appeared in the original series, I couldn't give the same thing for a majority of other characters who appeared in the first series. Brotherhood's portrayal of these characters are more conventional and less complex as heroic characters aren't confronted with any possible flaws to their actions and personal beliefs; as well as all the villains being so shallowly evil that they're laughable and I could care less if they get beaten up and killed off.

The final episodes to a good extent also felt quite contrived with how things progress just to allow all the surviving characters to have a good ending. A number of moments were deus ex machina thrown in for villains to be defeated through means which the series never explored and they kind of cheapen how I felt about the hardships faced by the Elrics and other prominent characters to get what they desire.

In terms of presentation, visual details with Brotherhood are a bit simpler than the first series with color tones being more subdued. This is especially prominent with background designs in many shots as their quality looks quite washed out compared to scenery found in the foreground. Still, character designs of those from the original series still look the same as they were from over five years ago. While animation shortcuts are apparent in a good number of shots in Brotherhood, the series does have its animation highlights with the occasional fluid fight sequence and some good fight scenes involving Envy's true form.

For music, much of Brotherhood's insert music consists of stringed and piano pieces that do well at complementing the peaceful and intense moments seen throughout the series. On the other hand, many of the OP and ED musical choices chosen for the series consisted of some generic J-Pop and J-Rock that hardly grabbed my interest, though the first OP, Yui's again, did well at fitting with Brotherhood's mood.

Overall, I found my perceptions of Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood to be no different from when I read the manga. It goes for a more conventional style of storytelling compared to the first FMA series and while it does have its moments of good quality involving character focus and world building, its more plot heavy and conventional focus drives it to lose much of the complexity given to prominent characters of the first series and the poor quality to its plotting in its beginning and ending episodes does kill quite a bit of the plot buildup that I would be expected to care about. While a worthwhile watch to those craving an epic-style action-adventure series or wanting a more faithful adaptation of the FMA manga, those wanting better characterization and solid drama with the series (in my case) would be better off seeing the 2003 anime adaptation of FMA.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice121Love it Love it3Funny Funny3Show all
129Show lessOpenGift

Nov 10, 2014
Fanboy-kun
Recommended
Ah, Fullmetal Alchemist, what an amazing ride through the world of alchemy, I'm not surprised at all it is #1 on MAL, since it also is, and probably will be, at least for a long time, #1 on my list.
If you're reading you probably came here looking to see if you should watch this anime or if my opinion is the same as yours, and please do not forget what this is, MY review.

Let us start with the best: The story - 10/10
Fullmetal Alchemist:Brotherhood's plot is the most incredible thing I have seen in an anime, seriously, If i could, I would go and meet Hiromu Arakawa and thank her for having an amazing imagination and ability to create and draw this masterpiece. You may be thinking "Another fanboy, better find a real review", and well, maybe you're right, but I have to praise what deserves to be praised, and this certaninly does.
Sure you can say the first episodes were a bit rushed, but wouldn't people still complain if they had slowed it down instead? For me the pacing of the story felt natural and that they did not need to waste the beginning of the series explaining the story since it is slowly explained as the anime progresses.

The Art - 10/10
Sometimes an anime can feel a little off when the art style does not please our eyes, even though the story is actually good, but this is definitely not the case. The art style is really enjoyable and I just loved those round faces!
The fight scene, don't even get me started! The animation is gorgeous and Bones sure knows how to deliver well-animated fights with amazing angles and details that really make the watcher enjoy what the're watching.

The Sound - 10/10
I can tell you this: I have every opening on my cellphone and I regularly listen to the ending songs and background music when I feel like listening to those serene and beautiful soundtracks or the epic songs from the several fight scenes. The voice actors did an amazing job with every single character, and even though I did not watch the dubbed version, I did watch a couple of bits on youtube, and it sounded pretty well too. I don't think there's much else to say here, top notch as always.

The characters - 10/10
The second best thing about Fullmetal Alchemist is it's characters. Every single character has a completely different personality and exceptional development, each one having their different reasons to act the way they do.
Even the villains are awesome, with their dark stories and troubled personalities that make our heros' journey be long and troublesome. It also has the best main villain of all time from any anime I've seen so far, that's a +1 right there.

Enjoyment - In case it's not obvious by now, 10/10
I enjoyed every single episode from this amazing series which left me sitting on the edge of my seat with all the plot-twists and cliffhangers that followed the previous one, that with the awesome animation quality by Bones, beautiful soundtracks and lots of relatable characters with funny, troubled, brave and heartwarming personalities.

Overall - 10/10
Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood was an amazing experience that managed to surpass it's other version's "awesomness" and show us what anime truly is about, and that's how it managed to reach my #1 spot, truly a masterpiece that won't be forgotten anytime soon, at least by me it won't. :)
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice137Love it Love it2Funny Funny1Show all
142Show lessOpenGift

Oct 24, 2014
Sahlin
Recommended
I have followed both the anime and manga of FMA for years, simultaneously. The first anime adaptation was satisfactory, but left a bad aftertaste.

Enter FMA: Brotherhood. Now this is a spectacular adaptation worthy of the manga; this is the epitome of a masterpiece anime. The series is just the right length; the storyline never drags, or falters. Although FMA:BH is strung together with an incredible strong plot, the characters are the real highlights of the series; the majority of the cast is thoroughly fully fleshed out with dilemmas worthy of our attention. And while author places nearly all major characters in perilous decisions, and they oftentimes follow through with these heinous choices, one cannot help but offer up sympathy to these fictional characters. There were many times where I frowned upon some of their judgement, but I often found myself contemplating: Could I have made a better decision if I were in their shoes?

The Elric brothers are amazing protagonists to follow in this splendid coming-of-age story. In the end, many of my values in regards to adults, decisions, and moral choices were uprooted, and I find myself realizing that more and more, life is less black and white, but moreso filled with shades of grey.

Definitely watch this series. Might I add, some of the soundtrack borrows from classical pieces such as Chopin's Etude Op.10 No.3, which only made the emotional scenes hit me *that* much harder.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice142Love it Love it1Funny Funny1Show all
147Show lessOpenGift

Nov 2, 2014
jacobjr1
Recommended
I'm going to be completely honest here... this is my favorite anime I have ever seen. Why you ask? Simple: (besides a few irritations) there is nothing wrong with this show.

The story follows two brothers who live in a corrupted country in a world where alchemy is possible. After their mother dies, they try to perform the ultimate taboo of alchemy: human transmutation. The transmutation backfires and the younger brother (Al) loses his entire body and the older brother (Ed) loses his left leg. In order to bring Al back, Ed sacrifices his right arm to bond Al's spirit to a suit of armor. Now, with Ed having a mechanical arm and leg, and Al having a suit of armor for a body, they are willing to join the corrupted military in order to find a way to bring each others bodies back to their original form. Now tell me that story doesn't seem awesome to you? Story: 10/10

The animation is simply fantastic. Since FMA:B is considered to be on the more "shounen" side of anime, animation is key to it's success. And, boy did they hit the nail on the head with the beautiful animation. Art: 10/10

The dub is absolutely amazing! FMA:B has arguably the best dubs ever made. It is one of the rare instances where the dub is just as good as the sub, so watch it either way! As for the sound track? Oh my gawd... you haven't experienced true awesomeness until you've heard FMA:B's main theme! Not to mention that every single opening is absolutely breathtaking. Sound: 10/10

One of the things that makes FMA:B so awesome is that everyone has a purpose behind their actions, and there is no such thing as a "dull" character in this anime. Even the biggest antagonist have a goal they are trying to accomplish, making even the biggest villains lovable. Characters: 10/10

There is never a dull moment in FMA:B where they just sit around doing nothing. There are rarely ever any filler episodes (if any at all), leaving the show to become full of wonderful twists and turns that will drag you in right away. Enjoyment: 10/10

Does FMA:B have some flaws? Yeah, I guess. However, most of these flaws don't exactly work against the show as a whole. One of FMA:B's biggest flaw is the first ten or so episodes. It's not that they aren't interesting (trust me, they are) but rather they often can't tell when to be serious. However, even this flaw is something that anyone can look past, since the show itself is so enjoyable.

To recap, FMA:B is nothing short of a masterpiece. The story is touching and sends a meaningful message. The art is breathtaking, and makes the action scenes that much more awesome. The soundtrack is a masterpiece in itself, and the dub is critically acclaimed as one of the best dubs ever. All the characters have so much depth that it's impossible to hate a single character of this anime. Finally, the anime was just flat out enjoyable from start to finish, grabbing the viewers attention from episode 1 and becoming more and more interesting as the show progresses. Overall: 10/10
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice137Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
142Show lessOpenGift

Jan 4, 2015
River_Cloud
Recommended
This anime is going in the All Time Favourites List along with the other classics, you know like one piece, naruto, bleach, dbz and all that stuff.
I'm not comparing with them though. Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood (FMAB) is not exactly like them. It is not the usual 'go on an adventure' type with dozens of episodes and fight scenes that all look the same. FMAB is more story-oriented and tactical.

First, the story is very well wtitten and everything is properly planned out and coincides with each other bringing out every element in the right manner at the right time. The concept is really good with the right blend of fantasy and reality.

Although the brothers are the focus of the show, each and every character has a role to play and help develop the story accordingly and develop themselves as well. This keeps the viewers alive to every character.

The soundtracks are soo cool. You would love atleast 4 of 'em.
I am not bothered by animation/art, but it is really good though.
I also liked the fact that there were some great statements and quotes about life, you know.

Not to mention, FMAB is one hilarious anime!! Then a little bit of drama and a little bit of a romance here and there gives it a proper outfit. I could recommend any type of person to watch this anime. For me it has become one of the classics
I saw this show when I was small and liked it instantly. Because I didn't see it properly I saw it again, and boy, was I glad I did! I loved every bit of it. Now I wouldn't say it doesn't have flaws, but why be a nit-picker when it is so enjoyable. No anime is perfect to everyone's mark afterall, eh
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice131Love it Love it0Funny Funny3Show all
135Show lessOpenGift

Nov 26, 2014
myrah
Recommended
There isn't much more I could say with all the praise it already has, but I truly believe that Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood deserves every bit of it.

The pacing is phenomenal; filler is minimal to nonexistent and every episode serves as another step forward. I know a few people who thought that the first few episodes were not explanatory enough, but one of the great things about it is its lack of unnecessarily long narratives; it gives you just enough background information without petulantly walking you through it.

FMAB is also one of the only anime that I prefer the dubbed version over the subbed. The voice actors are fit fantastically in their roles, and the openings and endings were, for the most part, great. The animation was gorgeous as well, especially in action shots.

But I think the most important thing to be taken into account is the plot and characters. At its center, FMAB is about two brothers who have just enough flaws for you to emotionally connect with them, but not so many that it crosses the boundary into overly annoying. The length (64 episodes) allows for steady character development, whether it be for the better or worse. Even the villains have some sort of depth without making it seem like a rushed pity backstory. It can sometimes have crass humor (which serves surprisingly well as comic relief), but it is also harshly realistic; good people die and there isn't always a good reason for it.

So go watch it! I hope you'll love it as much as I do.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice135Love it Love it0Funny Funny2Show all
139Show lessOpenGift

May 28, 2015
Natesune
Recommended
Story: Well this story is nothing short of amazing. It is so entertaining, and just interesting to watch. The comedy, and action are outstanding. It all blends in perfectly. Some moments are more breath taking than others, and I mean that in two ways. 1. The comedy often had me in tears, and breathless because of how hard I was laughing, and 2. Heart filled moments just hit you like a damn bus. 10

Art: Oh my god the art is great. I am sure there were some flaws, because there are flaws in everything, but honestly if there were flaws I never caught them. The character design is great, but even just the scenery is fantastic. 10

Sound: The ost for this show is perfect. The voice acting for it is also perfect. I don't think I have watched another anime where I love the Japanese voices and the English. Fantastic job from everyone. 10

Character: Oh my god again perfection. The characters are all great. You basically grow up with Ed, and Al. There physical, and mental transitions are so subtle that you really feel like you are watching them grow. Some anime have time skips where they just skip like seven years and then just throw you in, but not This anime you watch them grow it is amazing. 10

Enjoyment and overall: My enjoyment is through the roof. FullMetal Alchemist Brotherhood is a masterpiece that I think is going to stand the fates of time well. I was never bored like I am with some anime. I was always hooked. My enjoyment and overall score are both 10.

If you haven't watched this series I really really really recommend you dive in, and just let it hit you all at once.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice122Love it Love it1Funny Funny5Show all
129Show lessOpenGift

Aug 25, 2014
KandaRainbowsoul
Recommended
"You have to believe in yourself. Because if you don't believe in yourself, you will not only bring down yourself, but also many others that believe you and depend on you."

It may not be a quote directly cited from the series, but it is one of the things this series has taught me. This show was great from start to end, and despite knowing some spoilers beforehand, it still delivered to a 10 out of 10 rating - something that's not usually happening for a shonen anime because they tend to overuse a certain trope.

To kick off, I have been fairly reluctant to watch Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, because I have already seen the first series before the remake happened, and I was afraid that half of the anime would be the same as season 1, but since I heard it had rave reviews, I have put it in the corner of my plan to watch list anyway. Some long time after that, I heard the threat that many anime sites are going to be shut down, and I panicked by mass-watching anime and reading manga. Fullmetal Alchemist was one of the anime I started to watch during that period.

The story was admittedly a little predictable. But that might have been because I saw the first season, and a few spoilers on what happens ahead, or it might have not been. Despite the fair predictability, the anime has still delivered a great dose of tension, drama, fun, light-hearted moments to not make me burst out in tears from the heavy dramatic ones, and also action - thus I believe majority of the viewers would enjoy. If anyone is discouraged by the 64 episodes, just start slowly, you'll notice it will consume you in no time, because this anime is one of the few that are neither rushed or way too slow-paced.

Some people say D.Gray-man sneaks around seinen territory, but not nearly as much as this anime. The plot gets into a fairly dark theme at times, sometimes even gets slightly into political matters... and the art matches it well. The colors are not very vibrant, which might have taken a toll on the character designs - then again, this toll has made the characters even more believable and gave distinctive features to them and their descendants.

The soundtrack matches the mood of the anime in all possible moments. Violin is used for several melodies of the soundtrack, which make a perfect match for the dark theme of the anime. As for the openings and endings, they consist of catchy songs, which serve as a great introduction/outro of the episodes. I also have no remarks to the seiyuus, as they did a fairly well job to match the characters' profile.

With matching art and matching voice actors, it is possible to admit the fact that the profile of the characters is constructed to be fairly believable - they have their ups and downs, and it is possible to tell where the characters "got that attitude from". Their reactions are also believable; they do not overreact as much as it happens on other anime of this genre. I would cite a few examples, but I'd prefer to avoid any spoilers so you see that for yourself.

With all that overall, Fullmetal Alchemist:Brotherhood was a very captivating and enjoyable show, captivating me enough to take much breaks than most anime I have watched. I believe the masterpiece rating is indeed deserved for this one, although I wouldn't quite recommend it for starting audiences, as it would make their expectations of other anime series too high... then again I'm just kidding! You probably won't regret watching this one whatever audience you are from, but I can't tell you that for sure - you'll have to see for yourself.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10

Previous - More Reviews

Jul 21, 2023
Phasar2022
Not RecommendedFunnyFunny
STORY: Alright, alright.... So Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood follows the original Manga more closely than it's predecessor, Fullmetal Alchemist. I'll introduce you to the so called "story". Ed and Al are brothers who lives with their mother, Trisha in a small village of Risembool. Trisha dies of a strange disease and Ed and Al try to bring her back to life by using a magic called Alchemy, in doing so Ed loses an arm and a leg and Al loses his whole body. Ed and Al set out to look for the Philosopher stone that is said to break the rules of Alchemy. There is also some military business and something about Homunculus but for the life of me I can't pay attention to it. And thus the "journey" begins. So FMA Brotherhood... I keep on reminding myself of how good the first series is. You see, where as the first FMA was a fantastic fantasy world, Brotherhood fails to pull me in or build up on any atmosphere or charm. Without atmosphere it's very hard to be sucked into the story, but that isn't to say the story is not good, the story is very good! The story has a ton of twists and turns with a lot going on but there is no charm which makes all the events just seem bland. Sure it may of not needed charm if it weren't for the fact that the story has an absurd amount of comic relief, maybe the comic relief was supposed to be charming however the comic relief is so misplace and awkward it kills any atmosphere the story was trying to build up upon. The drama is also very weak, it actually is more soap opera like than the first series, barely any of the moments manage to squeeze a single tear from my eyes. It's that weak. Moments that brought tears to my eyes in the first series are just a side note in Brotherhood. It is also worth noting that Brotherhood absolutely does not feel like an adventure but more like a series of events, so much happens in a single episode that all the episodes just seem to run together. This is alright if you are heavily into action but it really gets in the way of any heartwarming or tear jerking moments. One more thing I think I should talk about is the symbolism and Philosophy, The symbolism in Brotherhood is barely noticeable, but even if it was why should I care about it if the show doesn't even let me into it's world? If I was sucked into the world then I would care, then I would say "THIS IS BRILLIANT!" The philosophy has an entirely different problem. Brotherhood has many different themes like, "Friendship (Yu-gi-oh)", "Revenge (Naruto)" and some old Greek philosophies. This is all well and good but it's hard to take it seriously when there is some silly comic relief taking place only a few moments after "Za Meaning of Life". All in all the story does seem like it has a lot to offer but the bad pacing, comic relief and overall lack of tone and atmosphere brings it down. All it needed is some better direction. 5/10



ANIMATION: The animation is actually pretty decent, I can't tell how they did the animation however the world of Brotherhood lacks color, this is a huge problem for a fantasy title. The only time the animation looks good is when an action scene is going on, Brotherhood has some of the best looking fight scenes I have ever seen but this is also a problem because it looks like the animation gets a sudden boost in quality as soon as someone enters looking like s/he is about kick some ass. Overall the animation is mostly lack luster only saving the extravagance for the action scenes. 5/10

MUSIC: Oh god the music! OH GAWD! Don't get me wrong, some of the music is incredible but the way they use it is so wrong. Barely does the music support any scenes often using some of the most bland songs from the soundtrack to make the scenes dreadful to watch. Add that to the already bland animation and the end result comes off as dreadful. This is too bad because I've listened to the soundtrack and the songs aren't really that bad, the soundtrack could of easily made up for the bland animation but... I'm starting to wonder if the director really cared about this series. 4/10

CHARACTERS: At least the characters are decent! At least! You got Ed and Al who's relationship is downplayed from the first to make room for it's large cast members. Yes, this is a series with loads and loads of characters. Does it handle it well?.... To a certain extent, yes! All the characters get their moment to shine and they are all well developed HOWEVER one thing that makes me want to bitch slap the writers into another dimension is their over used comedy gags. How am I supposed to take their emotional side seriously if they just crack a joke right after some dark and brooding moment? How am I supposed to take the fights seriously if they just randomly go into their chibi-form right in the middle of a fight scene? They did this is the first series a lot too but it wasn't shoved in your face (well... not as much) as in Brotherhood. Overall the characters could of been very good but if it weren't for their quirky side being shoved down my throat it would've been so much better. 6/10

OVERALL: I hear so many people calling this a masterpiece but It's too flawed on so many basic levels to even be called good. It's an average anime. This is really too bad since I loved the first anime so much. Do yourself a favor and read the manga instead, don't let bad art, bad pacing and terrible music do the job for you. I give Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood a 4/10



Brotherhood also gets an award or being the most overrated anime of all time (currently the third highest rated anime on anime news network and ranked FIRST on this site)
Reviewer’s Rating: 2
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice48Love it Love it5Funny Funny81Show all
186Show lessOpenGift

Mar 2, 2014
Lockensocke
Not Recommended
Fullmetal Alchemist, a story about 2 brothers going on a journey in a magical fantasy world, governed by the interesting concept of equal trade. “Giving something in order to get something”, based on reality, but in this universe ramped up to its extremes. Being able to make any material out of another was the dream of ancient alchemist, especially when it comes to the creation of gold, and it will become relevant again in a distant unknown future. Fullmetal Alchemist is an anime filled with this concept and I can only look fondly back to the time I first watched it.

7 years after the original anime fascinated its viewers studio Bones decided to make Fullmetal Alchemist again, with a slightly improved art style and more accurately following the manga. The result seems to be an improvement over the original, at least many people believe so.

I think it is quite understandable why Brotherhood is more popular and more liked than the original. It is more action oriented and has a bigger, more epic story. It's more to the point, more explanatory, less confusing, in some sense and some claim doesn’t have any open questions. Sounds great, right? Well for me, these changes are also my biggest problem with the show. Take the story for example. It is true that it's more explanatory, that’s because Brotherhood explains every detail of the story, as if the audience can’t think for themself. The character constantly remind you of several things so you absolutely can’t forget them. Half way through an episode it also has to remind you of the anime you are currently watching, with shouting its name out loud, just to make sure. Jokes aside, this penetrating need to explain everything goes way beyond normal story explanations. I mean, I understand that "show don't tell" isn’t always the best choice (even though I normally prefer it), but a story shouldn’t lay out all its cards. It just bothers me when a villain out of nowhere starts telling you their whole plan, or what evil stuff they already did, especially when they don’t need to. Why would they do that? And when they tell you everything about their plan why do they stop there? Why not telling the audience WHY they did that, WHAT motivations they had? Maybe going a little bit into the depth of their character? Sadly we dont get any of that in this anime. Regarding the open questions, yeah Brotherhood needly wraps everything together and doesn’t leave much room for imagination, besides having some plot holes here and there. In my opinion open questions in a story are a nice addition, both letting you fill the gaps with your own interpretation (so making the story a bit personal), and giving the yearning for more, in some sense.
Another part about the story that really bugs me is the constant need to include comedy elements, with funny artstyle, even for villains. By not clearly separating comedy from drama I feel the show makes it impossible to take anything really serious. It mashes so many styles as if it tried to appeal to as many demographics as possible and made it very similar to many other shounes out there. It had action, comedy, gore, drama and a romance story. The original was quite unique, when it comes to shounen. It was a story mainly focused on the two brothers and their journey. But the worst part is, that Brotherhood didn’t stay true to its core premise, equal trade. This concept was everywhere in the original. So many little details were made, from the beginning to the ending to bring this realistic idea closer to its viewers. The show has many consequences and one of the best endings I have seen in anime, that really fits the rest of the show. Brotherhood, on the other hand, lacks so much of it. At the start you can see it, but the more the story progresses the more it goes lost until it’s completely forgotten in the end. It is unbelievable that the writer of the manga doesn’t even get the point of her own manga. And don't get me even started on how bad the consequence free, deus ex machina ending was.

The pacing for the show changes a bit. It starts of very fast, as if it wants to go through the story that was already covered by the original as fast as possible, and then it comes to a normal pacing. Besides the fast start the pacing was quite enjoyable. The start was a pretty important and emotional part in the original. But Brotherhoods, because of the rushed pacing doesn’t manage to create the same effect as the original at the start. The anime is also very popular because of its action scenes. But they are way too uncreative in my opinion. Think about it, in this world they could make every material out of everything (at least they make steal out of stone, so silicon into iron + carbon(you also have to consider the high temperatures that have to be created), which is already hell of a transformation) It is idiotic to fight just with your “sword” when you have such an ability. You could create a vacuum or make the bottom liquid and then trap them. There are sure even far greater ideas than that.

Character wise, Brotherhood and the original seem to be similar. But I think only when you look at it from a surface level. Brotherhood especially butchered Hohenheim, for example. In the original he is a serious guy with a goal, for which he even could make sacrifices to achieve it. And a caring father for his children, while keeping his distance. He is mysterious and has his secrets, which made him interesting. In Brotherhood he is a typical whiny guy, who cant see anyone dying and who wants to save everyone, without goal and with a past that is completely idiotic. Ed and Al also seem more childish and optimistic and less pragmatic than in the original.

I also have to mention the Homunculi, which are a very important group of character. For those who don’t know the original: The homunculi are the anti-heroes or the villains, if you like. They represent the 7 deadly sins, and all have their background story and motivations. There is an interesting reason they all exists and the story made them seem undefeatable at first, which created a big threat every time they were on screen. All of them act like the deadly sin represented by them, which gives it a nice touch. These kinds of dedications sets apart the original Fullmetal Alchemist from your typical shounen and gave it its uniqueness. In Brotherhood the Homunculi are rather unimportant and completely forgotten in terms of personifications, depth, motivations and everything else that made them likeable in the original. They have no background story or any kind of focus. The homunculi don’t act like the deadly sin they represented anymore. Envy acts arrogant all the time only saying he is envy, but there is no explanation why. Greed also has to tell the audience that he is greedy else you wouldn’t know. The characters have to tell you what they are, they can’t SHOW you. And Wrath said something like: I’m proud of being a homunculus. Sloth is the worst of all because he is working overtime. In fact Brotherhood doesn't have any villains that are interesting, or that could create any sort of threats.

Artstlye and soundtrack of Brotherhood were very good. The animations looked clean and the backgrounds and character design was very well and detailed drawn. Soundtrack was better in the original but Brotherhood had a lot of nice tracks as well.

In conclusion, Fullmetal Brotherhood feels very much like a typical shounen anime. It has a childish story wrapped up with mature themes, explained to the audience as if they were kids. It maybe would have even been a decent watch, if there wasn’t already an anime that is the same thing, only superior in every important aspect.
Reviewer’s Rating: 3
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice96Love it Love it8Funny Funny8Show all
121Show lessOpenGift

Oct 17, 2020
GoodAnime_101
Mixed Feelings
Why do people give this such a high rating!


I saw FMAB because of the high rating and amount of praising. I was skeptical to see why it was rated highly. So, I watched it out of curiosity assumed that I would enjoy it because everyone else did. But, It’s so basic in writing that I feel bad for saying that. Also, I feel bad for saying this but FMAB fans just do anything to keep this anime #1 and they only say it’s good because everyone else says it’s good. when others animes with the same aspects of FMAB have way better storylines, characters etc. So anyways, I came in with no initial thoughts didn’t look at reviews ignored the rating even though the score was quite high and look at what it was offering. Now for what it truly offers and it’s not a memorable experience. Not to say fmab is bad but it wasn’t as great as I expected it to be. After I finished I looked at the score and baffled at why the score was even this high.

Pros: Great ending.
Pros: Some characters are very well written.
Pros: Simple animation and art style.
Pros: English dub VA’S match characters voice.
Pros: Great hand-to-hand fighting choreography, When there is hand-to-hand combat.

Cons: Basic story without strong story aspects as other shounen.
Cons: Underwhelming suspense/ Breaking point.
Cons: Comedy moments in serious moments.
Cons: Lots of caricature’s with 1 personality instead of multiple.
Cons: Pretty repetitive, Boring and predictable.
Cons: Underwhelming story for a long length shonen.
Cons: A lot of Uninteresting anticlimactic fights.
—————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————

Story: 5
Fullmetal alchemist brotherhood’s story feels disguised as complex but it’s really simple. Now don’t get me wrong the premise is very interesting, “It is impossible to create something out of nothing. If one wishes to obtain something, something of equal value must be given. This is the law of equivalent exchange; the basis of all alchemy.”

Now the story is about 2 brother’s that lose there mom (Alphonse and Edward) So they use a alchemy technique called human transmutation a forbidden alchemy technique to bring there mom back from the dead without knowing the consequences. Alphonse loses his whole body while Edward loses a leg. Since Alphonse’s whole body is gone. Edward tries to bring his brother back by sacrificing his arm and placing a transmutation on a suit of armor. They are traumatized by what happened. They’ve lost their bodies and are in search of the legendary philosopher’s stone to get there bodies back. Now as bad as there poor suffering sounds.

The story becomes so predictable because of Edward he is literally a beta male (too kind person) can’t blame Alphonse for following him. Besides he’s the younger brother anyways. They’re too kind to take risks for what they truly want. Since they don’t want anyone to suffer. Really hypocritical for them to continuously say that how they’d do anything to get there bodies back. Then someone sacrificed there life and they were still the same characters throughout the series WHY?? There were so many instances where they’ve could’ve got there bodies back. If i’m correct the brothers had contact with a philosopher’s stone over 5 times. But, Since the philosopher’s stone is made out of basically already dead souls and humans wanting to die the brothers just denied it because they don’t want suffering souls to suffer. That brings me to another point the story changes midway because of there betamale act. They give up on finding or trying to use the philosophers stone. They now want to go find another way to get there bodies back so then Alphonse gets memories of being dead and in “the gate truth” this randomly got brought up midway and they want to perform a stupid complicated way to get there bodies back. Also there was lots dumb tropes to keep the MC alive for instance. MC was on the verge of death because he was in a fight and the fucking villains said “Aye I think the kid is badly hurt let’s save him”. What an lazy way to add a trash filler character.

The climax is handled so poorly that it’s like eating rice and bread this one villain reveals himself and the person he revealed himself to (without getting to much into spoilers) was like “Oh yeah so you were the villain?” Then the person goes tells others about the villain they have the most predictable boring reaction. Now a Anime becoming predictable is not a bad thing. But, the way FMAB predictable aspect is handled makes The story becomes bland and uninteresting as shit because tension, suspense, Turning points are poorly handled that it just isn’t at all emotional it’s bland and once you think there is emotional moment it just lands a anticlimactic feeling after that. This just makes the story uninteresting. because there is no connection with how the characters are reacting.

Also, for the fairly long length of the anime it could’ve focused on Ling’s and all the other clans struggle deeper and made him more interesting. But, They barely explored his struggle which is unfortunate because it was interesting.


Sound: 7
The english voice actors match really well with the characters my compliant but the voice acting feels monotonous which I normally don’t notice in dub but I noticed here, Great Ost and soundtrack are played alot but I don’t really notice anything at all some ost’s are great I guess. But emotionally wise they ruin it with dumb comedy during dark moments or beautiful ones making it lose suspense while the series is playing and the jokes consist of the MC being short. Charming at first and quickly got repetitive. Some examples were a baby was getting born this is a beautiful moment. Yeah let’s throw a fucking side gag.

Characters: 6
The characters are done so poorly they are basically like caricatures
They represent litterally one personality except Homheim and homucolus they are actually very great characters but they got bad character treatment. Still very amazing characters. For the sheer length of this anime they could’ve explored many characters. My compliant about Edward Elric has something very traumatic happened to him yet he doesn’t have a realistic side to him he just stays a betamale no development or change. That’s really unfortunate could’ve made a great MC because of what he went through. Also there were some characters used for Roy mustang’s development. But it was used in a lazy way that didn’t build character tension. Also Winry is probably one of the most poorly written characters. Anyways i’ll list off some caricatures:

Maes Hughes: “LOOK ISN’T MY DAUGHTER SO BEAUTIFUL”
Izumi Curtis: “I’M NOTHING BUT YOUR EVERYDAY HOUSE WIFE”
Alex Armstrong: Says Armstrong generation in every line.
Edward Elric: Beta male.
Barry the Chopper: A “I’m a evil villain” that’s goofy and can’t be taken seriously.



Art/Animation: 7.5
The art style is simple which i admire. As for the animation i didn’t notice anything wrong or bad. It was consistent but not flashy kinda of underwhelming because bones always has very amazing animation. for other series like MHA, Noragami and Mob psycho 100 Coloring looks neat. not much to say except it’s overall good

8/10 for art style and coloring
7/10 for animation.

Enjoyment: 6
Now I was bored of this series 6 episodes in it’s just so predictable. suspense and tension couldn’t even covered this because it was handled so boringly. it’s not fun to watch or gets you on the edge of your seat it’s a dreadful experience. Some parts are fun to watch sometimes the comedy can be funny. Animes and manga rated under 9.22 are way more entertaining to watch then this and have way better story aspects then FMAB. I kept I watched this anime just alone no other anime to distract my watching experience and took me about 3-5 months to finished. I found it mediocre and over scored.

Overall: 6
This had some potential if it wasn’t a shonen a seinen more like it. Throw the side gags away, Expand more on the concept of alchemy make Edward a character that would truly do anything to get his body since that’s already a realistic goal. Make more interesting characters. They’ve could’ve did already interesting characters and their triats much better. Like Armstrong family history, Ling’s struggle, Make Izumi more realistic, Edward.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice107Love it Love it1Funny Funny1Show all
112Show lessOpenGift


Jan 28, 2015
Otaku_Apologizt
Recommended
To this day my writing is influenced by Fullmetal Alchemist. I read the manga about ten years ago, but I still remember most of the characters by name. The author's vision and its execution were not without flaws, but the overall end result was sheer brilliance. The themes of loss, sacrifice and transformation are seamlessly integrated into the plot and character backstories.

What makes this story exceptional is how universal its subject matters are. Everybody goes through growing pains, but in the case of the Elric brothers Edward and Alphonse, their transition into adulthood is nothing short of hardcore. The boys lost their mother, who they literally tried resurrecting, but in addition to failing miserably with the alchemical ritual, Edward lost two limbs and Alphonse his entire body. Turns out, despite the sheer magical potential of alchemy, it can't be used to bring people back to life.

There's a good reason why Fullmetal Alchemist has few peers. A story like this is impossible to create unless you've survived fucked up shit, possess the social support and intelligence to make sense of it and have the skills as a storyteller to convey those experiences. The author clearly thinks ill of shortcuts to personal growth (miracle cures, religion, etc.), evidenced by the first episode alone.

It seems obvious to point out the inspiration to this series is human darkness - even ethnic genocide makes it into the plot. It's astonishing how deep Fullmetal Alchemist goes with its harrowing concepts, yet rarely feels depressing. The characters talk about their emotions, then keep pushing forward, make new allies and grow as people. To be fair though, they don't actually get many chances to lament their misery, because the intense plot constantly whips them forward.

The main mysteries involving the plot are discovered shortly into the series, but the bad guys quickly clean house and cover everything up. This killing creates an incredible tension that sets the pace for the entire rest of the series. Not only that, but on many occasions the episode's cliffhanger is just brutal, reminiscent of Attack on Titan. Friendly advice: DON'T watch this series before bed, make the time to binge it!

The cast of characters is varied in genders, ages and body types. Their designs are focused and simplistic, though not without depth. Unlike how females are often drawn in anime, in Fullmetal Alchemist they look nice, but not overtly sexualized. There's also just about no fanservice. Even some of the evil characters are surprisingly humane, which indicates the author's ability for deep empathy. That's a real feat, considering the eyes she has for true darkness.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice106Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
109Show lessOpenGift

Jul 9, 2013
kkslider2130
Mixed Feelings
While FMA brotherhood offers an overall neatly wrapped full experience in anime and is a very easy anime to watch and be entertained by, it seems like many of the series'huge flaws which hurts its overall artistic quality are either being glossed over or are just not being talked about enough. In this review, I'd like to mainly address these issues and hopefully bring forth discussion. Is the anime good? Arguably, yes, it has a lot of great crowd pleasing aspects. Is it perfect and deserving of a 10/10? Sadly, far from it. If this review sounds in anyway cynical and pessimistic, I apologize, for I only think the pages of praise this anime gets needs to be balanced out with a bit of honest criticism. I also felt that I couldn't give an adequate critique without using points in the plot as examples, so I'm sorry in advance for there are some spoilers included.

Firstly, I found that brotherhood was ridden with far too many lazy convenient plot devices and shonen cliches for it to be enjoyable. What do I mean by this concretely? (spoilers ahead) If you look at episode 34 isn't it too much of a coincidence that sloth showed up right when the Elric brothers did in the exact same room? Consider the area sloth has to cover and how many times he actually emerges, isn't it too much of a coincidence that he showed up at Briggs right when the brothers was at the basement? Rather than having a story which melds encounters together naturally and smoothly, we get a cheap device made purely to advance the plot on very questionable grounds. There are other examples as well where we can see characters coincidentally being brought together if you watch the anime again. This is a terrible example of bad story writing and plot advancement.

What about shonen cliches? Just count the number of times in a fight where at the last crucial moment another character shows up to hit the enemy/ally to save someone. I realize that's a really badass shonen cliche, and when used sparingly, it can be somewhat epic, but in this one, it felt too tired and predictable.

The anime is also just far too naive and the actions and consequences of its characters are far too oversimplified. Brotherhood's predecessor might have its weaknesses, but it shines in it's realistic gritty overtones, and character growth in the Elrics as they journey through a bittersweet coming of age tale. In Brotherhood, there is only the illusion of character growth as they all have their respective emotional private dialogues, but these don't wallow past melodrama and towards episode 60, the elrics, mainly ed, are still the self righteous naive kids as they were when they started their journey. They don't murder under any circumstance for one but that morality is never explored because that's too much thinking and moral ambiguity confuses the audience I guess. In the original FMA, Ed had to resort to murder because of the situation and as dark as it was, the maturity was visible and there was a lot to be taken from that experience.

Often times moral themes in this anime don't get explored beyond "X is wrong so don't do it!" just like that annoying scene towards the end (spoiler)where everyone tells Mustang he'll become a different person if he takes his satisfying revenge on the homunculus who's committed multiple unforgivable crimes against humanity, but never goes into depth about the nature of revenge or why Roy will become evil if he takes vengeance in this instance. The nature of Roy's revenge wasn't even an explored theme until this moment, and all of a sudden everyone gets on envy's side and turns their teeth on Roy for no other reason but to tell kids on the other side that acts like this is bad because it turns you into a fiend for some reason. Was I not the only one shouting for them to end envy's life already? This was after the blunder of them not ending one of the world's most dangerous beings before by "putting him in a jar and giving it to a girl to be taken on a far journey" without assessing all the risks properly. The homunculi were dehumanized in contrast to the original FMA and made completely unsympathetic (save wrath and old greed) , and we are suppose to sympathize for them at the end for some reason when they were made to barely unlikable? It seems like everyone protects envy throughout the plot. There is "explaining morality through well written actions and subtext" and there is "preachy" Brotherhood is definitely on the side of preachy.

Mustang as well as everyone else's involvement in the Ishballan war was also not exposed enough I felt. There was not enough psychological explorations on that dark. evil event in history. In the original, there were enough time dedicated to show us the gravity of what happens during war, specifically the massacre of innocents and the guilt state alchemists have to bear, but all that was glossed over in brotherhood, and I felt the weight of war in general was not conveyed well at all when the anime had multiple opportunities to do so. (not just the ishballan war, but the civil battle at the end as well) and instead, we get shallow melodrama, plenty of light comedic relief, and not much food for the mind for us to ponder on. It feels like at times, the anime is almost afraid to be depressing. Compare Hughe's death sequence in both versions and tell me the one in brotherhood has more of an emotional impact.

Speaking of comedic relief, the chibi comedy moments in this anime really ruined a lot of potential serious moments. Often times, there was too much light relieving, there was nothing left to relieve but we get comedic relief'ed anyways. The atmospheric tones was much too inconsistent at key times where the director doesn't grip you in any major emotion for a significant amount of time. For an anime which uses so much comedy, FMAB suffers from the curse of just not being funny. I get it, Edward doesn't like to be called short, ok, I had a chuckle the first couple of times it was mentioned, but for the gag to be in almost every other episode was just straight overkill. I found laughter more in the subtler gags such as ed's terrible design sense.


Another naive and convenient moment was when all of kimblee's men happened to be good guys. They needed someone to rescue ed and be dependable, so hey, the two chimeras who were just trying to kill him a minute ago turns out to be genuinely good people because we'd have a dead main character otherwise. They couldn't kill the two chimeras in the room with scar who were tied up because the anime isn't dark enough to do that, so hey, Al trusted them at their word and they happened to be good people incapable of betrayal because everyone has good in their heart and just need to be trusted and the world is a great and simple place just like that! and just like that two allies were added to the roster out of nowhere because Arakawa couldn't write herself out of that predicament any other way.. changes of hearts are not gradual and realistic, but are rather handed out like Jesus pamphlets. Scar didn't have a second thought when the elders in his tribe whom he trusts questioned his actions, but switches sides just like that when he meets an ishballan soldier for the first time? I'm just suppose to buy that and go along?

The author also ignores too many possibilities regarding the use of alchemy while writing this. In an anime about alchemy, you'd think it'd be used more. When Al and Marco's car got a flat tire at the end, where was alchemy? when ed and gang was fighting hoards of zombie homunculi, where was the alchemy to simply bind them to the ground or wall? when the gold toothed doctor was taking his sweet time to draw a transmutation circle, where was the simple attempt to clap the ground to disrupt it? These were all techniques shown to be utilized in earlier episodes but not used so the plot could unravel at a contrived pace which makes questionable sense.

What the anime excels in is the fluidity of fight scenes, and the masterful animation with fine attention to detail all throughout, to the point where we can see the scar on Roy's hand healing scene by scene, episode by episode. I found characters in general to be paper thin and ill characterized because the episodes were more plot concentrated (but then again so was geass, but it dedicated enough time to character exposition at the same time) .I really wanted to like brotherhood...but really walked out feeling I just watched an above mediocre shonen which doesn't break the chains of its genre down to the last cheesy, sappy line uttered by its protagonist at the end.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice92Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
95Show lessOpenGift

Oct 29, 2014
GonWithARose
Recommended
“Mesmerizing, fun, funny, beautiful all encompassed in the –probably- most epic anime show of all history… in other words THE masterpiece.”

REVIEW FREE OF SPOILERS!

FMA: Brotherhood THE highest ranked show on this site. But for me is something more important than that, so let me try this again…
FMA: Brotherhood THE FIRST anime show I ever watched.

Let me be honest with all of you, I started watching anime 3 years ago –and manga a few months ago-, so in all honesty I am a newbie, but since the start –my start- I’ve been able to watch some of the most fantastic histories/shows of my life, leaving aside “real” –and by real I mean with actors in flesh and blood- shows like: Twin Peaks, 24, Lost and others.

I am lucky to have friends that have immersed themselves since children’s in the anime world, an those friends showed me an amazing way to start watching anime, and amazingly, now I’m doing this review for a friend of mine –and of course all those- that want’s to start watching anime.

Since the first time I started watching FMA: Brotherhood I heard very mixed reviews. Some call this one a masterpiece, some others call it a shameful thing in comparison with 2003-2004 FMA version. But for me both versions are amazing, but I hold dear this version a little bit more for being my first anime show.

FMA: Brotherhood is one of those “weird” anime that has everything and still their foundation holds perfectly because all the plots, all the drama, all the fights and scenes are “one for all and all for one” or in the words of the joker “They complete each other”.
So let us begin –finally- this review.


-STORY: 10-
To put it bluntly the story is neither great nor good. It’s fantastic, original –word that I don’t use very often- amazingly developed, in other words an EPIC MATERPIECE.
FMA: Brotherhood attempts –very closely- to follow the line designed in the original manga as opposed in the original Show.
It’s a story of friendship, of brotherhood, of moments filled with happiness and saddens, of regrets and treasured memories it has EVERYTHING.
And it has one of the most –or probably- the most AMAZING ending of them all.


-ART: 10-
In all honesty “huge pockets” will always save everything, whether a movie, a TV SHOWS or an anime.
It’s easy to see that the team that made “FMA: Brotherhood” a reality had a very good budget just by looking at the art. But let’s not “mess” with the amazing work made by the ART Designers of this show, for it doesn’t matter what we are talking about –in the art department- it is easy on the eyes. So beautiful and inspiring.
The characters are probably my favorite part/design in an anime that was made perfectly.


-SOUND: 10-
Let me tell you this, FMA: Brotherhood soundtrack is the first soundtrack I downloaded -from an anime- it’s mesmerizing, it’s perfect.
If I remember correctly no other anime has made me sing their main theme: “Again” by “YUI” or a song like “Lapis Philosophorum”.
And most importantly it doesn’t matter if you watch the anime subbed or dubbed, it’s amazing.

It’s a soundtrack that is memorable, a soundtrack that can change the mood of the moment by itself without the need of words nor actions.


-CHARACTER: 10-
To call anything in this show “the jewel of the crown” is honestly a waste of time after all, the wholeness of the show IS THE “jewel of the crown”. But I WILL waste my time by naming the CHARACTERS of this show THE “jewels of the crown”.

Every single character is memorable and distinguishable. All of them are entertaining and most importantly everyone shines on their own way. Ed in all honesty is one of my favorite characters of all time, Roy Mustang is a character filled with life… wait EVERY SINGLE one is filled with life, something that isn’t easy to make, they shine whether individually or in a group. Enough said.

-ENJOYMENT & OVERALL: 10-
This is one of those shows that everything is perfect.
It’s a masterpiece, an anime worthy of your attention and love.

As I stated before “most epic anime show of all history… in other words THE masterpiece.”
That line is enough to describe this show.

Thank you for reading.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice91Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
92Show lessOpenGift

Jun 8, 2013
StickyWizard
Recommended
Okay, so this is only my third review at this point, meaning that my reviewing pants are still a little tight and don't cup the goods just right yet, but I'm a firm advocate of sink or swim and, this being a review of one of the most popular [and currently highest rated] shows on MAL, I figure that I'll either be met with wild success or consigned to the murky depths of obscurity.

Right, so I'd like to go into this saying that Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is a shining beacon of hope amongst the fetid mire of what counts for shounen today. My own personal biases aside, I have never seen an anime that so completely earned its rating of 10 by being so consistently competent in just about every category. The merits of its predecessor, Fullmetal Alchemist, may be widely disputed, but there is no doubt that Brotherhood is one of the best anime that I've had the pleasure of watching and arguably the most well rounded shounen out there. Now, being the pleb that I am, I've never actually read the Fullmetal Alchemist manga, and therefore cannot attest to how closely the show follows it, but those of you who watched the original will find that, up to a certain point, it treads pretty much the same ground as its predecessor; beyond that point, the two stories diverge wildly with the introduction of the neighboring country of Xing [China, basically] and the squinty-eyed badasses that hail from it. On an off note, I always thought it odd that, in most anime, the Japanese characters look for all the world like young white teenagers, but when you introduce a Chinese guy, it's all "harrows" and squinty-eyes from there. At any rate, the Xingese characters really put the militaristic regime of Amestris [the setting of most of the story] into perspective, but I'll get to them later.

The story itself is excellently paced, chronicling the Elric Brothers' journey to get their bodies back and their subsequent discoveries about the nature of alchemy itself. This sets the perfect premise for an exciting story that explores the consequences of human transmutation and the myriad of other complex moral issues presented by something such as alchemy. It also [frequently] touches on the physical and emotional repercussions of war, and the use of alchemists as a military asset, but my favorite part of the story is perhaps that it finally elucidates on Houenheim, the boys' father, who was an enigmatic figure throughout the entirety of the original, and his curious relation to the show's behind-the-scenes antagonist [of whom, by the way, is far more interesting than the original's]. I would elaborate more on the story itself, but I'll abstain from it for fear of spoiling any plot twists or revelations, of which there are many. The only real complaints that I have are that FMA:B suffered once or twice from your typical stilted anime dialogue and odd anime morality. This isn't to say that the characters weren't all consistent and believable in their decision making, they really were, but there was one point where a character, in an incredibly justified fit of rage, was about to kill someone who clearly deserved to die [that he'd been looking for throughout the whole show in fact], but was stopped. Why? Because afterwards he "wouldn't be the same." I imagine not; he'd probably have quite a load off his chest and walk with a little more skip in his step in my opinion, but everyone else may as well have been quoting Star Wars, what with their "if you strike him down in anger, then you’ll give in to it yourself,” as though avenging countless lives is paramount to joining the Dark Side. I'd say that scene was absolutely confusing, but it actually contributed to an interesting bit of characterization for one of the bad guys; and besides, only a Sith deals in absolutes.
Another [in fact, the only other] gripe that I had was with how they treated the beginning, which, as I mentioned before, is roughly the same as the original's [which was quite dark], except for some reason they thought it’d be a good idea to throw more Cartoon Faces in there. I mean, I understand throwing in a little humor for the sake of levity when things are getting too grim, but when a girl is contemplating murder after being coerced with promises of reuniting with her deceased boyfriend, having her aim at the wrong person just to throw in another "haha, Ed is short" joke doesn't quite cut it. Not to mention that one of the times Al went into "cartoon" mode during a funny scene it struck me that he looked an awful lot like a big grey condom, a thought which I just couldn't shake off for the rest of the show. Aside from that, the story is pretty much flawless.

Interestingly enough, while Ed and Al are obviously the main duo, what with them being featured prominently on the box art, they can't really be said to be the only main characters. Brotherhood also follows a fairly sizable cast of interesting characters, showing no particular favor to any one of them, instead opting to diligently flesh out each and every one of their individual journeys; including among them an ambitious military officer's campaign to root out dangerous enemies on the inside and rise among the ranks of his fellow soldiers to the esteemed title of Fuhrer [which I understand sounds suspicious to anyone post 1945, but despite obvious comparisons, Amestris isn't Nazi Germany], to the survivor of a domestic genocide [okay... maybe it is] and his quest for vengeance, with a whole array of compelling characters in between.

While I'm on the topic of characters: if you were to ask me which of those were my favorite, I'd be a genuine loss; every one of them is consistent and interesting, and they compose what is certainly one of my favorite casts in anime or media in general. I must, however, award special merit to a few: King Bradley, for perfectly encapsulating all that is man; fearless, pertinacious, and unrepentant. Riza Hawkeye and Roy Mustang, for being the most well-rounded female character and the most relatable badass respectively. Houenheim, for having a beard worthy of Rider himself, and...
Actually, you know what? Never mind, all of them were amazing. Not to mention that FMA:B sports the biggest cast of female badasses that I've seen since Black Lagoon. A few characters are necessary to mention however, such as the new Xingese characters, Ling Yao [and his guards Lan Fan and Fuu], and Shao May [possibly one of the most refreshingly competent kids I've seen in anime], who are introduced around the time that Brotherhood starts coming into its own, and add a lot of supplementary lore about the world surrounding Amestris; also the Homunculi, because I really enjoyed how most of their deaths seemed to be accompanied by some underlying theme that corresponded to their respective traits. While there is so much to love, the thing that I find most impressive about the characters is that seemingly all of them are relevant. Honestly. I can't tell you how many characters were introduced that I immediately pegged as throwaways, but come the end of the show there they are, doing things. Important things. No single character can be considered the product of bad writing and they all experience growth and development in their respective arcs, oftentimes as a result of their novel interactions with the rest of the cast. By the way, I'd be remiss if I didn't mention the battles, this being a shounen and all. The animation is top notch for the fights this time around and you can tell that the development team went all out on each and every one; this show sports some of the most well animated fighting that I've seen. Not to mention that the action is pretty clever, and revolves around the use of tactics as opposed to power levels, meaning that the winner of any one confrontation was entirely circumstantial and therefore appropriately suspenseful. Every encounter is fast paced and exhilarating, and thankfully so, because there are plenty of them.

Lastly, the music and voice acting are superb. I personally watched Brotherhood dubbed, and would highly recommend it myself, because how often do you get to enjoy a genuinely outstanding dub? I tried the sub as well and found the voice acting similarly inspired; I really only chose the dub for the sheer novelty of actually getting to listen to a competent English cast. Each voice actor did an amazing job and matched their character perfectly. Ed and Al were voiced splendidly, easily conveying an entire range of emotions, Bradley was a warm family man and a menacing leader in the same breath, you could hear Roy's pain at his past molded into fuel for his ambition for the future, and of course, I could listen to Alex Louis Armstrong FOR GENERATIONS! The music was likewise impressive; this was actually one of few anime where I listened to every single opening song, every time. The OST as a whole was grand and, though some were perhaps initially overused, I never once found the BGM to be jarring or unfitting to the scene. Brotherhood also knows when to use silence; a valuable skill that many shows haven't quite gotten the hang of. Absolutely no qualms in the audio department.

All in all, Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is a breath of fresh air in a stagnant pool of trite shounen anime; the story is captivating, the fights are thrilling, and the characterization is exemplary. Sure it may have its flaws, like that stupid “no confirmation of [romantic] feelings [to each other] until the very end” thing that anime does, but that’s a minor thing when compared to the tour de force of competency that is Brotherhood. There’s a reason that it’s resting comfortably at #1 after all.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice86Love it Love it2Funny Funny0Show all
88Show lessOpenGift

Aug 15, 2014
ElDorito
Recommended
I, personally, love everything about Fullmetal, for not only is it an amazing anime, full of an incredible amount of heart and soul, but it was also the first anime that really introduced me to the beautiful world of manga, anime and Japanese culture. Whilst not being the first anime i ever watched, (dragon ball z being the first, followed by Nartuo (which i personally never really liked), it was the first anime that i completed fully. So, to my surprise, in 2010, after about a 3 year break from anime, when i came across the title Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, i was surprised that the story wasn't over yet, (i never had access to the internet until the age of 13, this being in 2010, and the library where i got my manga didn't have the complete volumes of Fullmetal), yet i decided to ignore it, only until recently i decided to watch it, due to my passion for anime coming back in 2013, and i gotta say, every moment, every minute was absolutely astonishing and to this day Fullmetal Alchemist will always have a special place in my heart and will always be my favorite anime. :3

Story: The story of FMA:B is basically the tale of 2 brothers, Ed and Al, who after performing a forbidding type of Alchemy called Human Transportation to bring their dead mother back to life end-up not only failing to bring their mother back to life but also sacrificing their bodies, Ed losing his arm and leg, whilst his brother AL is locked to a suit of armor. The story of Fullmetal Alchemist is rich, full of brilliant themes and ideas that at times can be absolute tear-jerkers, to dark undertones, such as genocide, corruption, lust, greed, envy and wrath. The whole story is essentially a journey to reclaim what has been lost and a chance at redemption (for example ED AND AL trying to re-gain their lost limbs). Everything about the plot to full-metal is almost flawless, the ending is absolutely spectacular leaving absolutely no plot holes.

Art: the art is simplistic, yet captivating. I absolutely loved the art style, i found it very re-refreshing and the character designs where amazing, all handled by my personal favorite animation company BONES.

Sound: The music in Fullmetal is absolutely brilliant, especially the opening and closing songs. All music does a fantastic job at showing the themes and the underlining feel of the show, a chance of redemption and to find what has been lost. Over the Dub and the Sub, for fullmetal, i would have to go with the DUB, every performance is top-notch, not one bad bit of dialog, yet you can never go wrong for the 2, sub and dub, both are top-notch.

Characters: i refuse to explain how incredible they are, watch it, for the love of god, watch it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.

Enjoyment: I gave the anime a goddamn 10/10, i love almost everything about it.

Overall: WATCH IT, READ IT, BUY IT, worth all of your money.

(compared to the original i believe they are both amazing peaces f work that must be seen)
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice86Love it Love it1Funny Funny2Show all
89Show lessOpenGift

Aug 1, 2014
HotVsCool
Recommended
It's been one month since I had finished FMA:Brotherhood and planning to re-watch important fight in the weekend.

story(10/10):
Story is great, there are many emotional scenes and strong brotherhood.
FMA: Brotherhood more closely follows the story line of the original manga, rather than the original television series which featured an original story line. Brothers Edward and Alphonse Elric are raised by their mother Trisha in the remote village of Risembool. Their father Hohenheim, a noted and very gifted alchemist, abandoned his family while the boys were still young, and while in Trisha's care they began to show an affinity for alchemy. However, when Trisha died of a lingering illness, they were cared for by their best friend Winry Rockbell and her grandmother Pinako. The boys traveled the world to advance their alchemic training under Izumi Curtis. Upon returning home, the two decide to try to bring their mother back to life with alchemy. However, human transmutation is a taboo, as it is impossible to do so properly. In the failed transmutation that results, Al's body is completely obliterated and Ed loses his left leg. In a last ditch attempt to keep his brother alive, Ed sacrifices his right arm to bring Al's soul back and houses it in a nearby suit of armor. After Edward receives automail prosthetics from Winry and Pinako, the brothers decide to burn their childhood home down (symbolizing their determination and decision of "no turning back") and head to the capital city to become government sanctioned State Alchemists. After passing the exam, Edward is dubbed the "Fullmetal Alchemist" by the State Military, and the brothers begin their quest to discover the nature of the fabled Philosopher's Stone, under the direction of Colonel Roy Mustang. Along the way, they discover a deep government conspiracy to hide the true nature of the Philosopher's Stone that involves the homonculi, the alkahestrists of the neighboring nation of Xing, the scarred man from the war-torn nation of Ishbal, and their own father's past.

sound(10/10)
the sound before fight is so great.The ending and opening theme songs were also great.The respective opening and ending themes for the first 14 episodes are "Again" by Yui, and "Uso" (嘘?, lit. "Lie") by Sid. From episode 15-26, the respective opening and ending themes are "Hologram" by Nico Touches the Walls, and "Let It Out" by Miho Fukuhara. From episode 27-38, the respective opening and ending themes are "Golden Time Lover" by Sukima Switch, and "Tsunaida Te" (つないだ手?, lit. "Tied Hands") by Lil'B. From episode 39-50, the respective opening and ending themes are "Period" by Chemistry, and "Shunkan Sentimental" (瞬間センチメンタル Shunkan Senchimentaru?, lit. "Sentimental Moment") by Scandal. From episodes 51-62, the respective opening and ending themes are "Rain" (レイン Rein?) by Sid, and "Ray of Light" by Shoko Nakagawa. While episodes 63 and 64 do not use opening themes, they use "Rain" and "Hologram", respectively, for the endings.[6]

Animation(9/10)
animation is very good, every character is unique and not overlapping, many animes have similar face characters which is very difficult to distinguish on watching 1 or 2 episodes but in FMA:Brotherhood characters are so peculiar and great in art.

character(9/10)
character are neither too many nor too less, Elric, Edward and Elric, Alphonse are the main characters and present throughout the series.There are many other supporting characters.

Enjoyment(10/10)
There are many funny scenes when people thinks Elric, Alphonse as Edward and Edward gets angry when he is called Shorty...Too funny

overall(10/10)
It's a great masterpiece anime.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice91Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
92Show lessOpenGift

Oct 12, 2014
Horatio_Nelson
Recommended
Before I go into this review, I'm just going to say that I actually like FMAB. It is a good anime, and definitely a must watch. That said, there are just a few things about it that just rub me the wrong way.
First of all, the story. It starts out dark, atmospheric, and complicated, just like the first anime, but unfortunately the story loses most of that atmosphere about a quarter of its way into the story, where as FMA was able to maintain that feeling of brooding tension from beginning to end. The pacing is terrible as well, and the reason of this is also the main reason as to why the story loses its feel: the first act. Arkawa wrote the manga in a fairly clean three part story;
-the first act (which concludes with Greed's spoiler)
-the second act (Briggs)
-the third act (Promise Day)
The problem with the first act isn't in its composition, indeed, in terms of composition I'd say that that the first act is the best of the three. Its all in the manner in which the story is told. The entire first act is blasted through in about 15 episodes, followed by a choppy, confusing transition into the second part. The rest of the story suffers as a result, as the second act is entirely plot driven with little space for development with the main characters, which in turn leads to the feeling that you're not actually watching a story as much as you are just watching people you don't care about do things for hours on end. The third act is admittedly outstanding, but there is still a slight feeling of indifference radiated by several characters and certain events take an absurd amount of time to come to pass. There is a reason for this pacing problem, that problem being that the show seemingly expects people to have watched the first series and tries not to bore them with the first act. Which is completely and utterly idiotic given the unbreakable golden rule of adaptations: never assume that the audience has seen the original or read the book. The ending is a mixed bag as well. Its undeniably satisfying, but it is also far too simple and happy for such a complex series.
The cast of Brotherhood is a mixed bag, some characters (Ed, Alphonse, Scar, Izumi, Major Armstrong) are solid, but not as good they were in the original. Others (pretty much just Mustang and Winry) are better than they were in the original due to a higher level of focus and more interesting subplots. A few characters, unfortunately, are either boring archetypes or just plain useless. May Chang and Yoki have practically no purpose in the story other than to be love interests or comedy relief. There is no depth to their characters and no real purpose (May Chang does introduce a new kind of Alchemy to the main characters, but that could have also been done just as easily by Ling giving Ed a book or something), so when they get in danger or die, the audience has no reason to give a damn other than "Well, I thought she was kind of cute.". The worst character, however, is easily Olivier Mira Armstrong, and believe me (or hate me, which is probable) when I say that this character is the literal epitome of almost everything wrong with modern media. So many people these days fall in love with characters just because they subvert gender/racial stereotypes, which isn't even remotely close to being a reason to like a character (unless if you in turn are racist or sexist). Olivier Mira Armstrong isn't well rounded, has no character development other than a cliche growing of fondness towards her "weak" brother, and does absolutely nothing other than order others around and act like a badass (and by badass I mean backstabbing old guys and getting her ass handed to her by the dumbest character in the series). We never see Olivier laugh, cry, get scared, or do anything other. Good character my ass. As for the villains, there is some good and some bad. Pride and Kimblee are awesome, though I still prefer the orginal Kimblee. Envy is a decent one as far as generic psychopaths are concerned, and the Azula moment that he pulls against Mustang towards the end is spectacularly handled. Wrath on the other hand is a badass but forgettable, and his moment of goodness in the end felt horribly contrived. The big bad lead villain works, but is basically a less subtle Voldemort with a vendetta against God. Once again, badass, but forgettable.
As far as art goes, FMAB is okay. Some things look a bit too round (Mustang literally looks like a five year old) and Edward's hair takes even longer to get used to. The action, animation, soundtrack, and voice acting are all brilliant and help ease you through the story where the pacing and the tension fails.
Overall, Brotherhood is a pretty good series, as long as you don't think too much about the ending or tha pacing or the characters. Just enjoy the ride and don't expect the masterpiece that the MAL community might pressure you into believing it is.
Reviewer’s Rating: 7
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice91Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
92Show lessOpenGift

Jun 15, 2014
connielas
Recommended
People tell me that I am too old for Japanese cartoons (those people are specifically idiots that prefer to say cartoons rather than anime). Full Metal Alchemist: Brotherhood aired 5 years ago so it classifies as an old anime but get this, I am never going to be too old and too late to watch FMA: B.

For some reason, otaku members in MAL may or may not be tired of seeing reviews that has a score of ten in FMAB. To those who are sick of seeing reviews like this saying how awesome Full Metal Alchemist Brotherhood is, well you guys better get used to it. After all, this show is by far the most epic thing I have ever seen in my entire life and I’m not just saying that because I am a fandom of it. The moment I first watched it, I was completely addicted and it became my instant favorite. (You may want to skip the third paragraph because I went through a long way before watching FMA: B but if you are interested on the story, fine with me.)

Okay, this anime was never my decision to watch and it comes with a whole journey of doubt. Last 2010, I was amazed after seeing Soul Eater and I became a huge fan of it. I used to go to this website called animecrazy.net (You guys may never heard of this website but it was removed some year ago or years ago) and it has this section called “Most Popular Anime of all time” and every time I view it I see Soul Eater at number 9 which makes me happy; however, as months pass, it goes to spot #13 and I was completely mad and to think the anime that beat Soul Eater was Fairy Tail and Full Metal Alchemist/Brotherhood. I had a huge grudge on those two shows so I promised that I will never betray Soul Eater (hardcore fan girl right?) but that assurance was broken until now. I watched shows that were really crappy before seeing Full Metal. For example, 12 anime shows that completely tell nothing but friendship and getting a boyfriend and some shows with potential but with plot holes and open endings. I never really felt so bored. Not even a single anime left me with an incredible impression for the reason that most of them never gave me a superb feeling like what SE handed me years ago. Until one day, I was watching Baccano! And saw a recommendation about Full Metal so I did it and broke my pledge. I deceived SE but I never thought that it was going to be my best decision EVER!

Full Metal Alchemist has a great story because each arc has a connection with one another. The first arc is the goal of getting Al and Ed their bodies back. The second arc is the villain’s plan which I will not tell you because I am not going to be a spoiler. The third arc is a clan’s mission in finding immortality in order to save their culture. The fourth arc is the anti-hero’s plan of seeking revenge on the military. If you think that’s all, think again. There are more back stories, more characters to invade, more unexpected happenings and more development on every character’s relationship. What makes it unique is that it uses Alchemy which is an ancient part of Chemistry (which is being taught to students of our era). Alchemy for some people claims to be magic of some sort but believe it or not it helped produced Chemistry that we know of today. This show is mainly talking about alchemy and it made it look so damn good. Some people will think that it’s going to be a boring show because it talks about a philosophical science but it is more than that. There will be a unexplainably awesome adventure for you guys with comedy, drama (lots of it), action, and surprisingly, a little subtle romance. I give the plot an outstanding 10 because face it, Arakawa-sensei made a story like no other. It is unique, incomparable and marvelous in a million levels. Sure, people will think that I am exaggerating a bit and yes there are flaws in this anime like there are some cliché ticks; nevertheless, it is quite different because there are no fillers and Brotherhood is straight to the point, a little fast paced and of course, the episode that capped everything is undoubtedly superior and satisfactorily complied with my expectations and even surpassed it.

Aniplex and Funimation had become popular in every anime show. Both organizations never fails to amaze me with their techniques when it comes to graphics but I won’t lie, the art is just very good and it did its best for a 2009 show by depicting very iconic styles and motifs. The background can be a little simple like its lacking details and animation. The colors were just nicely done. They know when to make a vibrant scene and a when to put a shadowy effect. Everything was just balanced and pleasing. People may observe it as mediocre but it did a splendid job for the graphics. Considering how it has a more modern impact unlike the original 2003 FMA, it also has great animation schemes.

One of the best points in FMA: B is their OST or original soundtrack. Every anime that has Bones as their producer really has excellent music that you won’t absolutely ignore (take OHSHC, CB and SE for example). For the opening songs, my biggest recommendation and the song that I really liked is Yui’s Again. It has a rather lavishing drama and courage mixed into it. It has a dramatic entry at first but it has a catchy tone in the latter part of it. The third opening, Golden Time Lover is also convincing and fun to listen to because it has rock music and it is also upbeat and likable. The fourth opening is great too, Period by Chemistry has a slow and not too quick rhythm but it uses electric guitar as its main tune. The second opening is full hope and has more happiness into it. Rain is just too all over the place but the video that comes along with the song helps. It is good but it just wasn’t notable for me. The endings were just as grand as the OPs. The best among the rest is Miho Fukuhara’s Let it Out (which is better than Frozen’s Let it Go) because it is the song that never gets out of my head. It is very iconic and very dramatic. It made me cry so hard every time it plays with a very sad moment in FMA: B. I loved it so much and is willing to make it as my favorite Otaku song. Uso, Shunkan Sentimental, and Ray of Light were all good and aspiring to hear. The blend of RnB and Alternative Rock was splendid (am I right). For Tsunaida Te, I disliked it because of the rap that goes along with the piano it didn’t blend with the slow and steady melody. For the sound effects, some were quite repetitive but hey, that’s what makes it iconic and memorable. When it plays somewhere you’ll know that it is Full Metal Alchemist Brotherhood’s soundtrack. The voice actors were flawless. They placed all the great emotions at the right time and the right place. Whether they need to be funny, sad, and emotionally fine they did it at the greatest quality as possible. Although, I am not fond of the English dub in many anime shows, FMA: B’s English dub was distinct. The Japanese dub is great too but the English dub was more hilarious. I was just a little concerned with Ed’s voice in the Japanese dub because Paku Romi is good at Edward’s younger voice but when Ed became a little older, she should’ve made her voice a little deeper but no sweat, she is a girl after all. In the English dub Vic Minogna’s voice was flexible at all costs. Kugimiya Rie and the English dub actors of Alphonse did an exceptional job (they were too many I can’t distinguish who was who). The others were awesome too making this anime lively and entertaining.

Characters are also one of the strongest potential of Brotherhood. Of course, Edward Elric and Alphonse Elric were a great main character duo. Both were entertaining and somehow have various personalities. Individually, they are different but both are awesome protagonists. The supporting casts were explicit from Roy Mustang to the villains. I didn’t hate any character in this anime. Each and every one of them was lovable and funny. Yeah, so some of them have the common personality like the pervert, the overly protective main character and the defenseless girl but somehow they are all fantastic when seen together and they also have unique characteristics. (Take Note: I mistook Edward as a girl and Al as a robot, I am so stupid, am I the only one though?)

If giving enjoyment an infinity I would've done it by now but sadly it’s only a ten. This anime has outstanding puns, dramatic parts, a little romance, overwhelming action scenes and an ending that no words could describe my feelings because it was the best one. (Thank you Arakawa!) FMA: B was the first shounen anime that made me cry. There were episodes that were just too intense that I never expected to shed a tear. The jokes were funny and were not corny. Yeah sure some of it was always shown but they place the jokes at the right time without confusing the person and making the viewers say “what the hell am I watching?” There weren’t too many ecchi scenes in Brotherhood because like I said it is pretty straightforward. Action scenes were not too dull. They preserved the specialness in every character’s strengths and weaknesses in order to give out their true power in the end. Romance? Well, I can't believe that it has one but don’t worry, the show doesn't focus much on the love story.

With a great story line, lovable characters that you won’t forget, unmistakably exquisite music and sound effects, a different art and amusing parts there is no denying that you should really NOT miss FMA: B. I am not saying this because I am a fan, I am saying this because I am a victim of watching an extraordinary anime that never left my mind. I was thinking about this anime for like weeks now and there isn't a second or a minute that I never wait for the next episode. I will always admire this anime because of its strong capability to make a person learn about sacrifices and pain. Life is cruel but in the end, you’ll know that everyone needs to lose something to gain what you really want. Just like what Edward said, “A lesson without pain is meaningless” so you have to stand and endure it. You shouldn't miss Fullmetal but instead have the time to watch it and you will be captivated. It wasn't ranked as number one in MAL for no reason. Because of FMA: B, I finally learned to move on and keep moving forward. If you haven't watched it yet, you will lose half of your life and your limbs.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice82Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
83Show lessOpenGift

Aug 5, 2014
alchemist111
Recommended
Fullmetal Alchemist:Brotherhood is one of those anime that can be called ”unique". FAB is an action,adventure,psychological,thriller,drama,comedy anime also having a slight touch of romance. The anime has done an exceptional work in combining all the geners and has balanced it perfectly.

FAB tells the story of two brothers who lost their bodies while trying to bring their dead mother back to life. So they go in search of a stone which amplifies the power of an alchemist called the philosepher's stone.

FAB has got an amazing story which makes you wanna keep on watching it and each episode has got its own twist. Every single episode is crucial and even skipping one could make you totally clueless. Also, its got an unusual attraction and watching each episode will make you wanna see more.

Then comes the characters. Every single characters are likable and respectable. As the story progresses there is a very good character development. The feelings, emotions, friendship, love and resolve of the characters leave a deep scar in your heart.

The anime has got a good Art. Also the detailing and the way the characters are potrait are all magnificent. The characters are potrait in a way which goes well with their personality.

The anime seems to be a perfection in whatever way you look at it. Especially, in sound. The voice given to most of the MCs are top notch and it matches the characters. Also, I think the English Dubbers did a good job, mainly Edward Elric's voice actor.

FAB is an anime which delivers a promise to the people that just reads its name. The anime is sure to give you a taste of some fine exitement and suspense. Unlike others, this one can be a treat for your whole family.

Fullmetal Alchemist:Brotherhood is an anime having its own class. A mind blowing piece of work that can make everyone satisfied of their life. Personally I think FAB is a hundred times better than FMA. So those who haven't watched it till now can go ahead and watch it and I garuntee you that at the end of the series you'll definetly say 'AWESOME'..
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice82Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
84Show lessOpenGift

Nov 7, 2010
randomguy6
Recommended
Have you ever gotten that feeling of overwhelming sadness once you finish an anime/manga because you know there will never be another one like it in its genre? That was the feeling I got when I finished Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood.

After the controversy of the first Fullmetal Alchemist anime deviating greatly from the manga, Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood was created as a completely faithful adaptation of the manga. Despite being a shounen series, Brotherhood adopts a unique, more mature approach to action shounen anime while still retaining the basic qualities of the genre.

The series takes place in a small, but powerful country called Amestris that mirrors Nazi Germany. Amestris is a militaristic totalitarian country in which its most powerful figure (well, sorta) is the head of the military, addressed as Führer. There are many other historical references, including imperialistic desires, trench warfare, and an event similar to the Holocaust, and they help us to understand the situation Amestris is in at the start of the series.

The story follows the journey of teenage alchemists Edward and Alphonse Elric, brothers determined to get back their original bodies after a deadly accident following a failed Human Transmutation. As they try to find the legendary Philosopher’s Stone, an all-powerful item that can purportedly return them to their bodies, it becomes apparent that this mysterious object is tied in to every single conflict Amestris has been in. Unlike other shounens’ plots, which are tailored to maximize fighting, FMA’s plot is intriguing and full of genuine suspense. At its core though, the series is an endearing story about the resilient bond between two brothers who’ll never give up until they achieve their goal, despite seemingly impossible odds and obstructing obstacles.

In the series, alchemy is a blend of supernaturalism and chemistry that essentially takes an object and changes or transmutes it into a different object. A highly practical ability, alchemy can be used for medical purposes, fighting, building, etc. As an aspiring science major, this is one part of the series that really impressed me. For instance, there is a scene where Ed is forced to fight a character that can shield his body with diamond, one of the hardest substances on earth. After realizing the makeup of the shield, Ed transmutes the diamond into graphite (both are allotropes of carbon), a much more brittle substance. All the carbon atoms were still present, but now they were rearranged to weaken the shield. The incorporation of chemistry gives the fights so many possibilities. The Law of Conservation of Mass is somewhat applied to alchemy in the concept called Equivalent Exchange. Whatever the amount you use is the amount you receive. Of course, one of the powers of the Philosopher’s Stone is the ability to defy this rule of Equivalent Exchange, a reason why it is so coveted.

Much of the fighting in this series is relegated to close combat (until the final battle). Usually, the combatants are armed with some type of weapon, or if they’re alchemists, they can also transmute projectiles. But sometimes, the fights are as simple as hand to hand combat. Few people have truly unique abilities, especially since most fighting alchemists have similar abilities and the normal people can’t use any supernatural abilities anyway, so you won’t see crazy destructive powers like those of Naruto or Bleach. However, don’t misconstrue the fights to be any less exciting. The action is just as exhilarating, and with the inclusion of alchemy, we often see incredible environmental manipulation. Strategy is important, so the alchemic principle of understanding is sometimes crucial in fights. However, as a shounen that is more plot-driven than most, some of the fights are rather one-sided. After all, fights are supposed to be decided quickly, not take up several episodes and waste our times. Many of the fights serve to advance the plot, so more than anything, we see character development and learn more about the events preceding the series during these fights.

The characters are easily the best part of the series. There are many of them, and they all serve specific roles in the series. The most important ones are given fleshed-out backstories, and through these, we learn about their unique personalities, values, and internal conflicts, as well as get a sense of what exactly happened to lead up to the actual events of the series. Each character has some sort of goal that they hope to achieve, be it a return to a previous life, revenge, becoming the next Führer, or achieving immortality. The main antagonists of the series are the Homunculus, an immortal group of near-invincible creatures with human exteriors. There are seven of them, each one representing one of the Seven Deadly Sins, and much of their personalities and goals are based upon their respective sins. Their mysterious “Father” is the one who created them. These characters are far from one-dimensional. Their psychological conflicts and emotional backgrounds really help you empathize with them. In fact, Fullmetal Alchemist has spawned a number of my favorite characters.

Now, despite all the praise I’ve given to Brotherhood, it does have a few setbacks, although whether these can be called setbacks depends on the viewer. The show often likes to resort to light-hearted slapstick comedy typical of a shounen series. Accompanying this is the occasional use of the chibi style of art. Some people may find this aggravating, although I personally have no problem with it. Also, the pacing of the series is somewhat inconsistent. Initially, the series moves rather quickly, resolving conflicts in only one or two episodes. At times, this gave the series an episodic feel. However, the pacing becomes much more streamlined towards the middle. Towards the latter part of the series, the pacing slows down considerably, and the final arc pretty much occurs within the span of a few hours. Again though, I found no problem with this personally, and the way the show was paced at different parts worked well with the occurrences in the plot.

The music is very suitable for the atmosphere of the show, giving an eerie, serious, ethereal, heartwarming, tragic, or lively feel depending on the scene. It’s not exactly memorable though, but it works. All the OPs and EDs are fairly good as well. On the other hand, the voice acting is perfect for the characters, especially Ed’s voice. Emotions are flawlessly conveyed through the voice actors. The animation is also fantastic. The fight scenes are exciting and flow well. No choppy movements. Occasionally, the faces do look somewhat disfigured and disproportionate (often times Mustang’s), but other than that, the artwork is detailed and generally solid.

Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood was an amazing experience. Its world is so intricate, but gradually, everything is explained in full detail, and it truly is beautifully crafted. This isn’t just another shounen anime. Its incorporation of political, religious, psychological, and philosophical elements and its focus on plot over fighting definitely make it a much more mature series than your typical shounen. At the same time, its slapstick comedy and grand fights are the reason for its shounen tag, but that’s not a bad thing. Also, this is the only action series that has invoked any serious emotion in me, showing that I actually cared about these characters. It is unfortunate to see it end, but all good things must eventually come to an end. This is a shounen that’s done right.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice83Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
84Show lessOpenGift

Mar 31, 2015
TheCrimsonHunter
Recommended
You've probably heard of Fullmetal Alchemist:Brotherhood, as it is widely known through the anime community as a fantastic and incredible anime. The main rule of this anime is of Equivalent Exchange; To gain, something of equal value must be lost.

So, what's the Story?
The story follows brothers Edward Elric and Alphonse Elric in a journey to find a mythical gem known as the Philosophers Stone in order to bend the laws of alchemy and receive the bodies they lost trying to bring back their mother after her death at the hands on an illness. That is the basics, though the second half of the anime is very different and the story becomes a lot more serious and the entire tone goes from a selfish journey for their own benefit and turns into a massive story that is absolutely fantastic.

The story of the anime, as a whole, was clear and enjoyable, and kept the overall feeling of the anime constant, always adding suspense, comedy, sadness, and any emotion possible.

The characters are amazing. From main characters like Edward, to background characters, each is given a motive, story and enough time to actually create a connection. Every character was understandable and somewhat likable or relatable.

The sub and the dub are both amazing, and the dub is one of the best ever for any anime, every character's voice is great, well used and memorable. Not a single voice sounds wrong. Every character sounds exactly like you'd expect them to and it makes the entire anime a lot easier to watch as well as a lot more enjoyable, creating a comfortable and relaxing atmosphere.

The animation style is incredible, fluent and beautiful. It works perfectly, and somehow they use the same animation style effectively no matter what emotion they are attempting to convey. Comedy. seriousness and sorrow are all presented fantastically

This anime is easily one of my all time favourite anime, and I have yet to meet someone who genuinely dislikes it. It's worth a shot, and I know you'll fall in love with it, just like I did. Watch it all and there will definitely be a least one character you love and at least one part of the story you will always remember.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice79Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
79Show lessOpenGift

Sep 5, 2014
Maurouki
Recommended
I have seen both versions of Fullmetal Alchemist (Brotherhood) and both are good to watch. In the first version (Fullmetal Alchemist), the first half of the series is really good. The fight between Edward Elric and Roy Mustang & the State Alchemist test taken by Edward Elric are notable ones. In second half, the story takes lots of twists and turns and I find it is not as impressive as the first half.
Anywayz, Fullmetal Alchemist is, in a way, unique. It is very much a mainstream series, with the appeal of a huge cast of unique characters, action that commonly involves special powers, a fairly straight forward story with some mostly obvious symbolism, and a mix of comedy, action, drama, and even some romance. These are all common staples of long running anime series that lean towards a more commercial and public appeal. And yet, for a mainstream series, it manages to continually surprise with a very mature and serious tone. There is a great deal of tragedy and some moments are even frightening and memorable. Few series achieve such a perfect balance of mainstream entertainment and gut wrenching drama and tragedy.
And I will finish by saying that if you are going to watch one anime in the entirety of your life time, Choose FullMetal Alchemist Brotherhood
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice80Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
81Show lessOpenGift

Oct 6, 2014
Leopah
Recommended
So in honor of FMA Day 2014 (I know I'm a bit late), I've decided to write a review for my #1 all-time favorite anime (and manga), Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood.

Honestly, I don't know what I could say about this show that hasn't already been said, but I'll give it a shot anyway.
I'm not going to do what I typically do for a review which is listing the categories and what score I gave them; just know that everything is 10/10.
I'm also going to address some critique that I've seen of the show and why I agree/disagree with it.
Also I'm avoiding talking about the 03 anime because as far as I'm concerned it doesn't exist.

I apologize in advance for this wall of text.

The story of this show is absolutely phenomenal. Not only does it manage to tell the story of the main two characters, Ed and Al, it also gives ample time to all the other characters to show where they come from and how they think. And the show does this all without losing steam or taking long breaks from the action, and also without having characters monologuing in the middle of fights. There's also plenty of comedy, but it never once ruins the mood of the show (cough cough Pandora Hearts).
People like to bash on the rushed beginning of the show, but the reason for the rushed beginning is called Fullmetal Alchemist 2003. Brotherhood quickly sped through the episodes that the 2003 anime had already covered because the good stuff was yet to come. If the pacing at the beginning isn't appealing to you, I'd suggest also watching the corresponding episodes of the original anime. That pacing is more true to the manga's. Plus, after the first 13 or so episodes of Brotherhood, the pacing slows down but, once again, without losing steam. Once the show hits episode 15, new characters that weren't in the 2003 adaptation appear and immediately take part in the story. But the new characters don't stop there. They keep appearing for a long while after that.
Everything in the story is so flawlessly executed that even this type of anime isn't your thing, you can't help but admire how perfectly everything fits together and how many pains the author took in planning every step of the story. Then when you go back and watch the show again, you realize all the subtle foreshadowing that was carefully placed and not obvious enough that you pick up on it before it happens.
This show is technically classified as a shounen anime, though I tend to cringe at that because FMAB isn't really a shounen. If you compare it to a more typical shounen such as Soul Eater, you begin to realize just how different it is. In Brotherhood, there's no yelling out the names of attacks, no long breaks in fights to monologue about plans, and the alchemy used isn't seen as an unquestionable staple of the world. Alchemy itself constantly called into question and many times the characters are forced to ask themselves if it's morally right to use alchemy to change the course of the world (whereas in Soul Eater they don't really debate the morality of the souls they collect).
Overall, even people that don't like anime like Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood. I've gotten several of my friends (as well as my dad) into anime using this show as a beginning step. If you watch the dub and ignore the obvious fact that it's animated, it doesn't seem like what people typically perceive as an anime at all. It's on a whole other level from everything else I've seen.
In addition, Brotherhood sticks to the manga nearly perfectly (the only things cut out were some minor character development and comedy scenes). Considering Studio Bones has a tendency to deviate from the source material (see: Ouran, Soul Eater, Noragami, FMA 03, etc.), with this show they did an admirable job with delivering an adaptation so accurate that you can read/watch one and not have to watch/read the other, even though I'd recommend doing both because of the anime's gorgeous art and music and the manga's few forgotten moments and the slightly different chapter divides.
Because Brotherhood was put into production when the manga was wrapping up, the show avoids filler episodes (possible exceptions include episodes 1 and 27, in which 1 simply introduces the characters and some foreshadowing and 27 is basically a recap episode that also provides some hints at foreshadowing). If you miss an episode of the show, chances are you'll be very confused as to what is happening. Each episode smoothly leads into the next and they're pretty much unskippable. If it's your first or even second time watching the show, I wouldn't recommend skipping even the fillers because of the foreshadowing they provide. I've seen firsthand how confused the "fillers" can make people while I laugh and say that it'll be explained later. And it will. Everything gets explained so clearly, yet all the subtle ways in which the plot points connect amazes me every time I watch the show.
As far as worldbuilding, I give triple thumbs-up to Hiromu Arakawa. She created multiple countries and while we don't get to see too much of life back home (I still want a Xing spinoff), the ideology of the foreigners and how it conflicts with the Amestrian characters' clearly shows. On top of that, Arakawa designed a government system which plays a crucial role in the story (then again, everything plays a crucial role in the story), as well as all of the laws and finer points of how the country is run. I've seen several other animes in which the government is used a plot point, but none of them use government quite as effectively as Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood does. So many side stories and spinoffs could potentially grow out of the complex world Arakawa created.
Sorry for writing so much about the story, but there's a lot to write about.

The art and animation are amazing. Not as sharp as Attack on Titan, maybe, but it definitely fulfills all expectations. The battle animation is fluid and well executed, there's subtle use of CGI at certain points, the alchemy lightning is pleasing to watch, and the backgrounds are nicely detailed and do well to set the mood. Some people have said that it's simpler than the 03 anime's style, but I honestly can't see it. If anything, I find it more detailed. There's a few moments in which the same shot is used for more than a few seconds, as well as moments where the characters don't move around very much, but this is a minor detail and excusable considering the top-notch fight animation. There are no dips in quality throughout the show, and everything is handled as one would expect a high-budget anime to be handled.
One of the things I especially love about the art in FMAB is the subtle aging of the characters. They age gradually, like real people, and you don't even notice the process happening until you look back on their appearances at the beginning and realize how much they've changed.
In addition, the women of FMAB are completely unsexualized as well as totally kickass. After watching other animes with copious amounts of fanservice, only now can I appreciate this anomaly and not take it for granted

I really loved the music in this show. While I felt that some tracks were overplayed in the beginning, this becomes less of a problem toward the end of the show because tunes you haven't heard before are suddenly revealed. The opening and ending songs are also very pretty and catchy (though I'm not too big a fan of the third ED), with my personal favorite opening being the last one. However, the first and fourth openings are awesome as well, and I think the first one in particular captures the mood of the show. I also loved the synchronization of some of the sequences to the songs, which I think is a very nice touch.
As far as voice acting, I've seen this anime both dubbed and subbed, and while I like the dub more, both versions are really good. The actors are spot-on as their characters, and I love how they managed to get most of the voice actors from the 2003 anime back for Brotherhood. Even Alphonse's '03 dub actor, Aaron Dismuke, came back, though not as Al because he was too old at that point; instead he voices a minor but important character. Overall, the voice acting in both English and Japanese was really good, and it's safe to go with whichever one you're more comfortable with (though personally I'd say go with the dub because that way you can concentrate on the pretty art and animation).

The characters are simply outstanding. Not only do they all get their backstories thoroughly explored, they all develop and change throughout the show. I've seen a lot of people griping about the fact that the show pretty much completely changes themes from the beginning, but the theme change is BECAUSE the characters changed. Wow, characters can change? Like real people?! I had no idea!
Whenever I'm getting people into this show, I tell them, "If you see a character that you kind of like, don't worry, because their backstory will be explained." And they always seem kind of doubtful, but in the end they realize that it's true.
Another reason why I hold this show in the highest regards is that there are many different races, cultures, and religions being portrayed; and while some characters make racist comments, the cultures themselves are treated with the highest respect. The episode detailing the events in Ishval is one of the most grim of the show; the Ishvalans being handled by the story as carefully as if they were a real race.
The romance in this show develops subtly and beautifully and never once hijacks the plot. In addition, while it's amusing to watch Ed and Winry struggling with their feelings for each other, Ed does something pretty atypical for a protagonist: He blames himself for making Winry upset, and not because she got mad at him, but because he knows he should have been there for her. It's not all that often you see the male protagonist apologizing for causing the female protagonist grief.
On top of how well-rounded and three-dimensional all of the characters are, they're all very well designed. Each one of them looks and moves differently according to their personality, and a lot of the characters change outfits regularly (which doesn't seem like much, but it's the little things that count, especially considering most animes don't do this and a lot of them have some kind of uniform, school or otherwise, to avoid having to have the characters changing outfits).
All in all, every one of the characters in FMAB leave a lasting impression on the viewer, whether they were in the show for one episode or all of them. It's so hard to pick a favorite.

Even though this show, at 64 episodes, is the longest anime I've seen yet, it's such a fast watch that it honestly doesn't feel like it. While I personally haven't set any records with the speed of my watching, friends of mine have finished the show in time periods from 2-4 days, because of the sheer addictiveness of it. And the show IS addictive. Every few months I get a strong urge to rewatch it and cry all over again. And while I'll never completely forget every detail, every time I rewatch it I'm still blown away.

This show draws you in with the seriousness of the story, the depth of the characters, the gorgeous art and sound, and pretty much every other detail you can think of. To sum it up, if you want a viewing experience on a whole other level from anything you've seen, if you want an ending that will make you break down and rethink your life, if you've seen the original FMA and enjoyed it, watch Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood. It's not the #1 rated anime on MAL by accident, and it'll definitely always be my #1.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice72Love it Love it0Funny Funny2Show all
74Show lessOpenGift

Nov 30, 2011
erialc
Recommended
Before watching Brotherhood, I've watched the original series few years back. FMA 1 was good and awesome too, but the thing I hated about it is that the ending is not tragic and is not satisfying. So, knowing that there was an another adaptation of the series made me all curious about it.

Since I enjoyed watching Brotherhood, I never realized I finised watching the whole thing in just one week.

"Why?", you may ask? Well, at the first few episodes, the pacing of the plot was pretty fast, for someone who have watched the original FMA before. But, if you were not aware of the original series, maybe the pacing would be okay for you. It was not as detailed as the first series, but since there are new additions to the plot, new friends and enemies, and fuller character development, especially with Winry [who was just a minor supporting character in the original series] and of course, with the Elric Brothers, you won't bother about the pacing and embrace these awesome changes instead.

The story plot was different from the original FMA; the first 6 episodes were adapted from FMA1, and the next episodes were all different. Since this plot was faithful to the manga, you'll be surprised... and happy, that there are new things to discover in Brotherhood, as I've mentioned above. The addition of the east country of Xing and the northern Briggs, and their corresponding characters, was like a breath of fresh air to the series, as we can see and expect more stories and more types of alchemy and auto-mail. Also, the origins, forms, and the battles against the homunculi were totally different too. The fight scenes were all amazing. Yes, there are bloodbaths here and there, but that's the part I love the most while watching them fight, whether by weapons, alchemy, or simply a fist-to-fist battle.

Maybe the part I love the most in watching FMA is on the last few episodes. The ending was simply touching, since Edward still sacrificed something for his younger brother, but in Brotherhood, he sacrificed something different... and less tragic. I also loved the part where Ed, Al, and Hohenheim worked together when they fought with Father, and I simply cried when Hohenheim said to Trisha's grave that he's happy that at last, Edward called him "Dad". The ending of FMA 1 was disturbing and not really satisfying, whereas in the ending of Brotherhood, you will love it so much you will wish for a sequel... or an afterstory perhaps.

The art and animation in Brotherhood was clearer, more crisp, and lot more contemporary than the original, as expected from a recently-produced series. I'm not really that particular about how the anime was drawn or animated, but Brotherhood was one of the exemptions to it. The battles were not crappy, and I really got creeped out when the "immortal army" was released [the white doll-like humans] from the Central underground.

The seiyuus have done a good job in portraying their roles in Brotherhood, especially Ed and Al's. I also love the OPs and EDs used in Brotherhood, especially "Hologram", which was the second OP and surprisingly the last ED of the series. The background music used were perfectly synched with the scenes in a particular episode. After watching the series, you will definitely want to listen to the whole OST.

All of the kinds of characters in Brotherhood-- from the heroes, supporting characters, new characters, and to the villains-- it wasn't possible NOT to love at least one of these kinds. I even loved the character of Greed, who was a bad-turned-good character, and in the end, found satisfaction from his comrades. Also, the guys from Xing were also amazing, especially May, which inspired Al to study eastern alchemy in the latter parts of the story. Also, the addition of Alex Armstrong's older sister was also awesome, and also one of my favorite new characters.

And most especially, I love how Winry was turned into a REALLY important character in the series, and how Ed masked his OBVIOUS liking to her.

I loved the series. I laughed with it. I cried like a baby, especially whenever Ed shows his selfless nii-san love for Al. I was intrigued with every ending of the episode, which was one of the reasons I finished the whole thing in a week. The series was not a disappointment in my part, and it made me wish that all of the other remakes would be AS GOOD as this. This is a quick recommend to my friends who love to watch shounen and for those who were familiar with the original FMA, because Brotherhood was told in the manga's point of view, and the story came in full circle in the end.

Right now, I am suffering from a post-anime series depression, which I think will last a few weeks or more. It's not because the series was bad, rather, Brotherhood was too good for me to finish quickly. All my friends who've watched Brotherhood had the same feeling: the feeling of not watching any anime series for a few weeks before moving on, since when you finished watching Brotherhood, it would feel that a part of you ended with it. After watching the series, I was stunned for a few minutes, and told myself "This is it; I finished FMA Brotherhood. What will happen next?"

Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is a good addition to the anime series you should watch before you die [LOL, but seriously]. If you like more action, NO filler episodes, and a satisfying ending, this one's for you.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice75Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
76Show lessOpenGift

Jul 16, 2025
kymaros
Not RecommendedFunnyFunny
Generic shounen anime with flat characters and childish moral distinction. Anything that has an ounce of grey is classified as unthinkable. The villains are bad, but killing them is even worse (even though they are literally trying to kill you right now).

No character growth because they are just caricatures. Every serious scene gets interrupted with unfunny chibi jokes.

A boatload of tertiary characters. Every single character in a scene has to comment something obvious and useless as infodump. There is no nuance to the relationships between conflicting personalities.

There is no story coherence and no sense of purpose, as the plot overextends the main objective of the MCs it ends up resorting to 'everything will be just fine'.

After the first reasonable death, having organs impaled, blood loss and spine-breaking contusions, all turn out to be non-lethal and non-incapacitating.

Alchemy is supposed to be scientific, but it is just magic used as plot device. For example, one time a character was literally dying for 5 minutes, but suddenly can use restorative alchemy to patch themselves, even though it has never been shown they can do that in any similar situation before.

The battles are tedious, just like most generic shounen anime: a lot of talk for no reason, commentary from non-fighters, the villain monologues something that gives a hint to their weakness, someone random irrupting, sudden powerups because fighting spirit and screaming righteousness heals the fist-sized hole in your lungs.

Background music is terribly used: the same eerie piano is used for thinking moments, shocking scenes, and a normal conversation, and the rest is just forgettable.

Brotherhood is the complete opposite of FMA.
Reviewer’s Rating: 3
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice20Love it Love it4Funny Funny47Show all
111Show lessOpenGift

Sep 24, 2014
Cityinnightmares
Recommended
The original Fullmetal Alchemist was a fantastic anime back in 2004. It had a fantastic story, and amazing characters, but unfortunately, the pacing was slow, and the ending was somewhat bittersweet. Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood, it's remake, on the other hand manages to fix just about every problem the original had, and even manages to improve all the good points from the original.

The story of the Fullmetal is one not to forget. The story revolves Edward Elric, and his brother, Alphonse Elric, who are searching for a way to return back to their original lives after committing a dangerous taboo, human transmutation. The story revolves around the idea that in order to receive something, you must sacrifice something of equal value. The brothers live in a fantasy-like militaristic nation that has a great focus on the use of alchemy called Amestris. This is an incredible story that uses it's time wisely, with just about every moment having a importance in the grander scheme of things. Not everything is as it seems, as they are some really clever plot twist you won’t forget. Despite the fact the the story is massive, it never seems to complicated. It explains everything in a way that it doesn't talk down to you, but you never feel like you've been given to much info to keep track of either.

The best part of the anime by far, are the characters. The show has a huge cast of likable characters, each with own interesting personalities. None of the characters feel like stereotypes, and they are all given enough depth to make them feel alive. There’s the main dou, Edward and Alphonse Elric, two brothers who are searching for a way to get their original bodies back, and their childhood friend, Winry, who is always making sure the two brothers are safe. There’s also the members of the military, Roy Mustang, a man who wishes to become the fuhrer of Amestris, with his devoted team, and a loving father and husband, Hughes. And, of course, the antagonists of the show, the mysterious homunculi whose motives see, unclear at first, and a man looking for revenge, Scar. I haven’t even mentioned the side characters. Ninjas, Alchemy teachers, engineers, and a runaway father. Hell, I don’t even know if I can call these side characters. They're all so important, with their own different goals and character development, they could be considered all to be part of the main cast. They are all so varied, you’re bound to have your own favorites.

The animation for the show is great too, although some might prefer the originals art style over this one. It looks a bit more simpler compared to the originals, but that’s mainly because the original had some fantastic artwork. I will say this, though. The animation is great and has some incredible action scenes, and nice facial expressions. The art style is beautiful as well, creating fantastic environments, with a great use of distinct colors. The animation does fall once in a while, but it’s so rare, you’ll hardly notice it.

And finally, the sound. This show has a fantastic orchestrated soundtrack, with solid voice acting. The anime has five opening and ending songs, and they’re all a joy to listen to. The music complements the show greatly. Every scene is backed up by a great track, giving them all it’s intended atmosphere. It can make scenes intense or relaxing, exiting or melancholic, and most importantly, meaningful. The only complaint I would have is that some of these tracks are played too often, but it never really bothered me. The voice actors for this show are great as well. There’s not really a weak voice actor in the bunch, and some of them really do help push the characters to seem more believable. You can’t go wrong with either subbed or dubbed.

I can’t stop praising this show enough. The show is incredible, with practically no flaws(I tried my best to even find the few nitpicks that I did find). You’ll end up finding these episodes passing by too fast, with these 64 episodes will all hold something memorable. This is not a show you want to miss.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice78Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
79Show lessOpenGift

Dec 21, 2014
eskimoseb
Recommended
Full Metal Alchemist is the work of mangaka Arakawa Hiromu, and is undoubtedly her most famous work. While an anime series under the name of Full Metal Alchemist did air in 2003-2004, the actual manga itself had not finished at that point and, as a result, the ending differs significantly from the actual manga’s ending. Airing in 2009-2010, Full Metal Alchemist Brotherhood (henceforth referred to just as FMA) rectified this. Finally viewers were able to experience the joy of the entire Full Metal Alchemist story adapted to anime format – and what a joy it is.

FMA is very quick in establishing an action-packed storyline, soon evolving from the small-scale tale of two boys trying to find a way to recover their bodies into an epic quest to save the people of the nation of Amestris from being literally devoured, as a family of homunculi seek to gain the power of God (perhaps the Japanese ‘Kami’ is more appropriate here, as this God is more of a divine lifeforce than a fully-fledged supreme being). One of the coolest parts about FMA’s storyline, and this came as quite a surprise to me, was how dramatically the pacing slows down in the last quarter. These last 16 episodes represent only about 2 days’ worth of the story, and from this point on everything really is switched up to 11. The action definitely is amped up from this point on, but so too are the personal stories of our characters. It’s hugely rewarding to follow all the mini-storylines as they comes together for the story’s suitably epic conclusion. Without going into any spoilers, the ending to FMA was as close to perfection as I think anime will ever get.

FMA succeeds on multiple levels, being an accomplished mixture of the more enjoyable and light-hearted fights and comedy that a good shounen needs, with a very mature and intelligent approach to the personalities of the characters. It straddles the line between a more adult philosophical anime and a shounen anime placing action first and foremost, dedicating equal time to both these approaches. This is possible largely thanks to the concept of alchemy – the superhuman powers alchemy grants its user is almost absolute. The theme of humans playing god is heavily prevalent in the show, as is the concept of religion in general (Never is the maxim ‘advanced science is indistinguishable from miracles’ more applicable than in the case of alchemy in FMA). It’s a very compelling topic of discussion, and one happily that FMA doesn’t fail to address. The first mini-story of the show, set in the religious town of Leto, is designed to introduce you to our main characters, is focused exactly on this idea, with a healthy dose of action and drama for good measure.

Without further ado though, let’s look at the characters of FMA and why it is this aspect of FMA that is truly what sets the show apart. These characters are what drive the show’s considerable runtime to be a constantly entertaining and, thankfully, filler free experience. I counted about 30 characters who received decent development in the story, an astonishing figure when you consider that’s a character being fully developed every 2 episodes!

It probably won’t come as a shock to you, but it soon becomes apparent when watching FMA that the characters were its biggest strength. This is not only due to the fact that none of them stick to the archetypes loved by many (myself included), but because of how many of the leading characters are both physically and emotionally scarred. Our main characters, Edward and Alphonse, strive to save the world, but not because it is a simple driving principle that they live by, but because they need a solution to atone for their sins. This is not an uncommon driving force in FMA: the Ishbalan war soldiers, Lieutenant Hawkeye, Major Armstrong and Colonel Mustang, are also examples of characters living with regret, as is Scar, an Ishabalan hunted by the country and determined to exact revenge on the soliders of Amestris for killing his entire race! These characters are spending the bulk of their lives having to deal with the consequences for their actions.

This is why the primary villains of the series, the homunculi, are so much more important than just punching bags. Each homunculus is named after one of the seven deadly sins, and overcoming and defeating the sins that our cast bears is brilliantly exemplified by the action-packed battles with the antagonists. These details add fantastic depth to what could easily have been a very plain ‘stopping bad-guys trying to take over the world’ situation. In a normal shounen anime, I would normally say overcoming enemy after enemy is not the same as character development, but in the case of FMA, it very much is.

Fullmetal Alchemist makes full (hehe) use of the wonderful opportunities the writer has set up to allow the characters to flourish as humans, not just ideals with bodies or walking plot devices. As a result, the tragedies that befall these characters are not only obstacles for them to overcome. No, they are genuine disasters that scar these characters in longer-lasting and character defining ways. It is the way that the characters are shaped by the actions that surround them that gives them such relatable and loveable traits.

I won’t spend too long on the animation and music section of FMA, because this review is getting long enough as it is! The sound and music of FMA is something I regularly look back on fondly, because there’s not a moment where it slips up. Voice acting is perfectly cast, and Edward’s squeal when someone calls him short never gets old. The theme songs for FMA are also consistently on point, starting strong with Yui’s fantastic ‘Again’ and never looking back, especially impressive due to the fact that FMA switches up its OP and ED a total of 5 times in its 65 episode running time.

By contrast, if there’s one thing that Full Metal Alchemist doesn’t excel in, it’s the animation. It does the job and is pleasing to look at, but isn’t anything that you would write home about: character movements are smooth and some of the alchemical constructions are pretty impressive, but that’s pretty much that.

To wrap-up, FMA is that rare breed of shounen anime where the difficulties the characters face are solved by brains sometimes just as much as they are by brawn, but FMA doesn’t stop there. The characters are all likeable, well-rounded and intensely well-written people. Such is the complete quality of Full Metal Alchemist Brotherhood that, over the course of writing this review, my analysis of the characters and their situations has led me to respect them even more than I did having just finished the series for a second time.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10

Previous - More Reviews

Jun 10, 2015
YukiMawaru
Recommended
One thing I distinctly remember about the 12 year old me was a fear of becoming a mega nerd who watched anime. I enjoyed video games but didn’t want to plunge headlong into the void I saw before me. Well, times changed and I found myself watching my first anime at a college friend’s behest. In 2011 I found myself entranced with the deep and exciting world of Fullmetal Alchemist and the story of the two Elric brothers as they journeyed to redeem themselves. The ending to that first series, however, was a letdown that shook my good impressions of the strong opening. That opinion remains to this day.
A few months later I recounted my experiences to my friend and, to my surprise, he replied that a retelling of the series had recently finished which remained faithful to the source material. After a few months, I sat down on Netflix and watched Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood. The whole time I wondered: can the series be better than the original? Could the already great relationship I encountered between the two brothers be deepened?

Story:
First, I’d like to explain the story. Two brothers, Edward and his younger brother Alphonse Elric, live in the mysterious land of Amestris where Alchemy is a science practiced by those gifted with this strange ability. The Elric brothers grow up in their hometown with their childhood friend Winry and their mother until a plague comes through the area. Tragically, their mother passes away in the epidemic but Edward and Alphonse resolve to see their mother’s smile once more. They study from books their absent father left behind and attempt to do the forbidden: bring the dead to life. Needless to say the attempt turns horribly wrong and the series then focuses on the siblings trying to return themselves back to normal.
What separates Brotherhood from its original 2003 counterpart is not really apparent at first. The brothers commit the same horrible act and what immediately follows is eerily similar. When the story reaches Dublith, however, Brotherhood begins to tell a new story. The result, I am delighted to say, is an exciting epic that twists and turns throughout the whole of the mythical world Hiromu Arakawa has laid out for us. The purpose for which the two brothers fight becomes deeper and deeper without ever losing sight of what originally drove the two to join the fight in the first place; and the resolve of the Elric brothers is pushed to the limit in ways you would never think possible. The ending is especially epic as the underlying philosophy of the show comes to light. It’s amazing to see a show that does this well in the end and Brotherhood deserves every ounce of praise it gets for its story
Sadly, it would be a lie to claim this story is perfectly told. Both the very beginning and middle section of the series suffer from pacing issues. To be frank, the beginning is often criticized for the choice to gloss over material covered in the 2003 counterpart. While all the material is there, you might be wishing for just a little more explanation before the show continues at full speed. The middle section of the anime also suffers from a pacing issue, but this time it’s too slow. While it was nice to take a breather from the action immediately preceding this section, Brotherhood falters as it introduces the final set of characters that will join in the epic climax.

24/25

Characters:
Probably the most remarkable aspect of the original Fullmetal Alchemist series back in 2003 was the goofy and touching bond between the two brothers Edward and Alphonse Elric. The rapid back and forth between the two served as an ideal backdrop to explore the two brothers’ personalities. Fortunately this bond was not only kept with the new series, but taken to even higher heights. Seeing the two in action was truly a delight.
One of the exciting things about Brotherhood was a truly diverse cast with characters that fairly consistently avoided the cardboard character models that are so easy to fall into. Minor characters that stand out include Yoki, Maes Hughes, and of course Lust. But what makes the series memorable is the diverse cast of characters with their own motivations. Roy Mustang and Riza Hawkeye are trying to atone for the crimes of the Ishvallan war of extermination and build a better world no matter what the cost. General Armstrong seeks to make Amestris as strong as it can possibly be and fights to make it so. And even the enemies have motivations that sum up to more than a simple “we must stop the main protagonists at all costs.” Brotherhood massively succeeds in making the story engaging through its exciting cast, and I feel as if the story is as wonderful as it is because of the well-developed characters in this series.

24/25

Animation:
Of course no animated series can exist without the medium of animation to carry facial expressions and convey action. To this respect, Brotherhood improves upon the solid foundations left by the 2003 series and the manga. I particularly enjoy the character designs, but animation experts have raved about the fantastic fight scenes the series boasts. One animator, Yoshimichi Kameda, has received extensive praise for his touches and innovations in the Sakuga of several major fight scenes. Aside from that there are a few instances where the animation gets a little derpy and the chibi animation can sometimes interfere with the overall gravity of the plot; but I find it refreshing that a series so epic takes a small breather every now and then.

16/17.5

Sound:
With regards to the overall sound of the show, I felt as if there was some solid work put in on the part of Akira Senju. Unfortunately, the music of the series does begin to grind on you as the show reaches the climatic final scenes. This is alleviated somewhat by the execution of the music in the show as it never overpowers the quietest moments and never is lost even in the thick of combat. One major plus in my book is the work done by Funimation in their Dub of the show. Vic Mignogna delivers again in his reprise of Edward Elric and the rest of the English cast is, for the most part, quite solid. As I am not a native speaker of Japanese I generally prefer watching the Dub when I can so I am able to more effectively judge the quality of the voice acting; and the English cast is phenomenal. If I had to comment on the original voice acting performed in Japanese I would remark that the Voice actor for Edward sounds much younger than an American 15 year old would sound… Haters gonna hate.

14/17.5

Accessibility:
Finally, I would be negligent to recommend or condemn this series without mentioning the appropriateness of the series to all ages. While I do feel as if the series is a masterfully told story, there are elements that prohibit me from recommending this adventure to all. Most notably the dark one and violence make this series a no go for anyone under the age of 15. If you doubt me watch episode 4 and tell me it isn’t dark. Also it seems like every shonen series has an uncontrollable urge to throw in a tub scene with the main love interest. Obviously this isn’t family friendly. While complete nudity is not an issue, this series is not guitless when it comes to the regrettable trend of fanservice and innuendo.

4/5

Enjoyment factor:
I loved Brotherhood… Enough said, and seeing as it tells a complete story that examines and plays out different philosophies as part of its intricate design, it seems as if Brotherhood will continue to be my most enjoyable TV experience for a long time.

10/10

Many people have lauded Brotherhood since its completion and I am happy to include myself in their number. The sheer glory of the ending is a masterpiece that needs to be seen to believe, though the barrier of entry regrettably limits the audience of the series. For these reasons I rate Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood with a score of 92 out of 100 and grade the series as a Diamond rated show. Brotherhood is a monument to anime done well, and is a testament to a story told superbly. The combination of quality animation and well developed characters provide the perfect backdrop to a tale of two brothers. A tale where redemption is just beyond their reach.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice71Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
72Show lessOpenGift

May 18, 2015
Replicalost
Recommended
FullMetal Alchemist Brotherhood was released in 2009 and it is a remake of the FullMetal Alchemist, where the story takes another path and twist from the original. Brotherhood is considered to be better than the original from most of its viewers.The whole animation has deep meanings as its designed based on facts and different cultures, Its not just a random put-together. It has a good way of transmitting the anime's emotions such as comedy style and drama, and will definitely make you laugh sometimes , and other times feel sad or even cry.
The anime consist of 64 episodes which by my opinion is a very good amount that doesnt tire you and its not too short either. There are also some stand-alone side stories: Blind Alchemist, Simple People and Tales of the Master.

Graphics: The graphics on this animation are much improved than its predecessor. The graphics engine changed and if you watch this animation on more than 720 p you are gonna love it! The movement is smooth and the physic in the anime are as realistic as they can considering its a fantasy world with super extra special effects! It has Naturalistic colors which will not make your eyes hurt and the design of things around is pretty interesting as well. For an anime released in 2009 it has awesome details. Characters are well designed and give you the exact face expressions depending on the situation.
Art: The openings and the ending of the series are awesome as they have great music and awesome design. As every anime openings of course they are kinda spoily as they show things from the series that have not happened yet. The anime has awesome soundtracks in general where they fit perfectly on the situation.

Plot: We are in a world where in contrary with ours the people can apply Alchemy! Alchemy is the science where you can take matter , Understand it , dissolve it and then put it back together in something different. All people there can do it pretty much , at least people that are practising the art. Out protagonist tried to follow a forbidden alchemy type when their mother passed away. Wanting to bring their mother back they applied what can be said as human alchemy. The process backfired and Edward lost his leg while his little brother lost his whole body. Edward not knowing what to do he sacrificed his arm to tie his brother soul on an iron armor. After they survived Edward had surgery to apply prosthetic parts and his brother remained as an armor. Now Edward applies to work for the military thinking that he has a chance to find a way to discover the Philosophers Stone, a legendary ingredient which will help him and his brother recover their bodies. The questions are so many that they dont know where to start looking. What are the creatures called homunculus that have the name of the seven sins? What is their connection with the Stone and the way to immortality? Will the two brother stay together until the end or will the guilt consume them?

In General: The plot is very well made and i can tell you that it is so complete that it doesn't let you any holes or blanks when the anime ends. It is deeply mysterious and very moving in such ways that it will definitely make you cry! The plot doesn't only move around the protagonists as all characters in the series are interesting and have an awesome story.

In Depth Details: The whole world in the animation seems to be Germanized as for starters there is a Fuhrer in the anime. The state alchemists are called dogs of the military and in general the story is very militarized. There is this extermination of the Ishval where i can connect it with gypsies due to their lifestyle , cultural similarities and the fact that Germany killed about 1 million Romans(gypsies) during the war and also the war on multiple fronts. There is also an obsession with the occult in the high ranking members. If you have watched the original FullMetal Alchemist you will see that at the end of the series and the movie, it takes place in Germany 1923 on hitler's age where the German Nazis are looking for power to invade other countries.
According to the writer: Arakawa has stated she didn't use any specific countries or cultures to create Amestris, but rather a combination of several European countries from several different periods between the 17th and 19th centuries and, more specifically, the changes that occurred in the Western Europe during the Industrial Revolution (with a greater inspiration in England). According to her, however, there's no implied relation or comparison to any specific country, time, or government.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice74Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
75Show lessOpenGift

Jun 9, 2014
Liongirl90
Recommended
When the original Fullmetal Alchemist came out in 2003, it was apparent that it followed the manga at first, but them went on it's path. Which didn't make it bad, but it annoyed many people, including me (Even though I didn't watch it until about 9 or 10 years after it came out.)

But! Our fandom had been blessed with a reboot of the series that follows the manga, and is pretty damn good. I have been intimidated to write about this series because well, it's too awesome to tackle with reviews.

But here we go!

Story 9/10
This story is unique! I've never seen, or read, a story such as this one. What I think I liked most about it, was the fact that it HAD so many episodes. A story like this one can't be just put out there and finish up in 26 episodes or less. They did an amazing job wrapping everything up at the end of 64 episodes.

What especially loved was the fact that the story flowed so nicely, even though when I first watched it I was confused during the first 13 episodes because I had watched FMA '03 before hand. You should probably wait a little bit before diving into this series after finished the original. It may seem the same, but it's a whole different ball park. However, no questions are left unanswered, and there are a lot of feels involved.

Art: 9/10
I am personally a fan of BONES, they do great animation work with a unique style of their own. It works nicely for this show, it has it's dark moments and the animation fits with that.

There's also the standard; 'Anime serious face' and the 'anime goofing off face'. EX: Ouran High school host club. I think BONES did really well, with character detail. But not so much with background animation, things seemed a bit off there. You'll see what I mean if you watch it.

Sound 10/10
Expect 10s from here on out, and I don't usually hand out 10s.
Ahhhhh this series has the most beautiful sound track, each scene that has music accompaniment has a set of emotion. The sound track can make you laugh and cry, there even have been some scenes really helped with anger or hatred towards a character.

They re-use songs a lot, but still have a large amount of songs. My favorite is 'Brothers'. You will hear that a few times, it's a sound track that I could listen to all the time if I could.

Character 10/10
The story of this series effects the characters in a certain way (I can't say too much on that with out giving spoilers). And what I really, really, love about these characters is that they react REALISTICALLY. I /adore/ characters who have negative backgrounds and react according to them.

Even Maes Hughes who acts as a comic relief, is serious when he needs to be. There aren't any annoying characters, and there are a crap ton of strong female characters.

You will grow to love all these characters, and feel for them!

Enjoyment 10/10
This anime, is hilarious, then sad, then action packed. I loved it and will recommend it to anyone who asks.

Over all: 10/10
This is an anime that will live in my heart for years. I've re-watched it 5 times, and never get tired of it. I HIGHLY recommend you watch this series, you will not regret it.

Now, about the dub. I'm a person who prefers dub over subbed. But I can watch subbed and I know when I hear a bad dub. This is NOT a bad dub. In fact, it's the best I've seen in all the anime I have seen. I also highly recommend watching this anime dubbed if you like it that way. You will not be disappointed.

That's all, happy watching ^^
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice67Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
68Show lessOpenGift


Feb 5, 2021
Mc_drago213
Not Recommended
Fullmetal Alchemist brotherhood is a straight up mediocre show. I came into this anime so excited. I would always hear people say "its a masterpiece" or "its the best anime of all time." Its even the highest rated anime on mal. I was hyped up and ready to see what the show had to offer. However, I was immensely disappointed. This show is so overrated it is unbelievable. It is so corny and ridiculous I am convinced only children enjoy this show. During "serious" fight scenes there are always bursts of unfunny comedy that is just straight up cringey. There is no sense of suspense or nothing that keeps you engaged in the story. The characters are lame (especially that annoying crybaby talking robot boy), the music is meh, the animation is decent for its time. But I mean wow this show is so corny and is obviously targeted towards little kids. Corny does not mean bad tho. However this anime tries to be serious and corny at the same time which just completely ruins the shows atmosphere. This is by no means a masterpiece and should not even be in the top 50. Attack on titan is 10 times better I cannot believe the amount of people that overrate this kids show.
Reviewer’s Rating: 1
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice58Love it Love it7Funny Funny9Show all
90Show lessOpenGift

Nov 6, 2014
greendragonite
Recommended
This is one of the greatest anime of all time. I know that's kind of bold statement to make but in my opinion it is one of the greats and my personal favorite. The story is great and is paced so well especially in comparison to FMA 03 the original adaption. This anime's greatest strength is its story and characters because its characters are just that characters not cardboard cutout archetypes. For example Winry Rockbell starts the show as this stereotypical childhood friend who is always keeping the main heroes in line but while she continues that she expands with a back story and emotion that shows she cares for her friends and the people around her. The two main protagonist are Edward and Alphonse Elric who are excellently written as the short-tempered leader who just wants to protect who he loves in Edward and Alphonse as such a softy who just wants do what's right in his quest for his body. The story as I said before has excellent pacing moving from gripping drama to bits of humor to intense action seemlessly. I'm not going to say this is perfect because it isn't some of fights lack speed and weight in the animation. Speaking of which the animation isn't anything to write home about in my opinion keep in mind I watch this in 2014 so for its time its above average. The sound overall is quite good the theme was carried from FMA which isn't a problem and the openings are much improved with the first standing out. Overall its at least worth watching to get your own idea of it
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice64Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
65Show lessOpenGift

Oct 20, 2014
not_inept
Recommended
This show is a shounen anime. Or, at least, it is supposed to be. It is the topped ranked anime on MAL right now for a reason. You come to care for the Elric brothers, the Rockbells, for the whole cast.

For a show that ultimately is about the bonds we form here on earth, FMA:B does a phenomenal job of portraying these bonds in a fictional world with exceptional character development all around.

One thing is also to be noted. This series never forgets. Never. Ed's inscription holds true, but not just for the 3rd-- those who are lost are never forgotten, not once. This show consistently and and meaningfully calls back to early moments in the show the Elric brothers said they'd never forget, making those moments relevant again as new challenges are faced.

I think it was about six episodes in that I had to stop my first binge run. It was because I was absolutely horrified and disgusted. Normally shows can't shake me. But some of the themes this touches on feel so real the characters that they affect seem so human that you can't help be mortified at the tragedies, just as elation comes when it is due.

That's another big thing. The humor in this show is mild but it balances out the sorrow. It builds the relationships in tandem with the drama to show us something that isn't perfect, but is so clearly superior to Sakura's friendship speeches and although the dialogue at times felt subpar, it never felt completely pointless.

The action scenes, too, were rarely drawn out unnecessarily and were all beautifully crafted. I'm crossing my fingers that more shows will get their brotherhood, because although this series is longer than the original it felt more focused, and certainly it ended up feeling more meaningful. I may have given few hours to this show, but I feel equivalent exchange was not at play here because it has given me a lot more than I was expecting.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice66Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
66Show lessOpenGift

Aug 9, 2014
ladylovelyxo
Recommended
Pros: Brilliant plot, excellent opening/endings, perfect flawed characters
Cons: Rushed Beginning, art style is a little cartoon-y

Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood is undoubtedly one of the most popular animes out there, and for a good reason. It follows two brothers, Edward and Alphonse Elric who attempted to bring their mother back to life with the most forbidden alchemy: Human Transmutation. Their attempt failed, costing Alphonse his entire body, and Edward his left leg. In a desperate attempt to keep his brother with him, Edward willingly sacrificed his right arm in exchange for Alphonse's soul. Edward bound Al's soul to a suit of armor he found in his basement.
This plot is perfectly explained in the original anime "Fullmetal Alchemist". It's like they created this with the thought that everyone watched the original first. I would highly recommend watching the first one if you want more insight on the transmutation, or reading the manga version.
I also criticized the art style to be a little cartoony for my taste, but gave it a 8. The style itself is clean and fresh but feels very simplistic. However, overtime when you watch this anime- one of my favorite parts is that the characters do not stay the same age. The characters grow in the story as you watch, and you don't realize it until you see the teenage protagonist actually looks like a young adult in comparison to the 12 year old you once got introduced to.
The soundtrack is wonderful, it's a great listen. The openings also make the characters grow/change like in the anime. When you see them separately, and look at them side-by-side, you'll see the growth. One of the most uniquest things I have ever seen in an Anime.
The characters in FMAB, are all lovely. They each have there own story/quest. In the end, you really enjoy watching them grow with the protagonists and see them help Edward and Alphonse reach there goal including there own.
Overall, this anime is wonderful and heartbreaking, and will make you laugh and cry. Even though this anime has flaws, I gave a 10 because of the wonderful journey it gave me. Its truly a treat. It's a beautiful story you will honestly never forget.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice63Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
64Show lessOpenGift

Feb 24, 2018
MrKaminaGlasses
Not Recommended
Look, I can see why this anime is really loved, but I just don't think it's that good.

No, this is not a troll, and I think it's silly that people might think I'm trolling simply because I don't like a show, but when it's the highest rated anime on the sight I can probably come to expect some hate. But Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood is just not that good.

For one, the pacing is really messed up. In the first season (12 episodes) we jump from past to present and zoom through something I can tell was probably a really important part of the story, and it left me with no way of attaching myself to any of the characters. Several characters die and impact the story and the mains but it's so rushed that as a part of the audience I can't find it in myself to care, really. It seemed like they were plot devices.

Another thing I think is bad is the way things are revealed. Without getting too much into spoilers, we're kept in the dark of a character's past until some part of the story like 40 episodes in, and then all of a sudden it's dropped on us and we're expected to get it. The anime also has a lot of "philosophical" undertones, I guess, but the philosophies are really weak and surface level. Such as Edward in the first few episodes when he's in that town and talks to the Rose character, telling her that humans can be made with ingredients found in the town market and that alchemists are atheistic because they know these things--but Edward has SEEN god. This, also, is conveyed after the fact, which just makes it even more confusing.

And really my biggest issue with the anime is that there seems to be an inconsequential bit of tension. IT's so repetitive. Ed and Al fall apart and we all know they'll just get put back together again The whole reason Ed has automail is so that it can get wrecked in the story so he seems to be in danger. Nothing ever comes of it! By the end all the characters are pretty much the same, no development has been done, but the show has a Disney ending anyway because, for some reason, a show with philosophical undertones needs to end happily.

The animation was really good, and I enjoyed fight scenes well enough, even if a power like alchemy is poorly explained. It looked good all the way through, and there's no character designs I dislike either, but they use the same music tracks over and over in the show and I started to get tired of the music overall. I will say this, though, the openings and endings are pretty top notch.

So overall I didn't really like this show at all. My biggest thing is that I think this show has a high score because it came at a time that anime was booming, and it successfully adapted the source material in a way that the original failed to do. You know everyone says "the book is better than the movie" even when the movie was good? That's because, for some reason, people just think the thing that came first is better. So when a bad show is made from a bad manga, people think it's good because it stays faithful, but I don't like it. If you did, that's fine, but you have to remember that the philosophy is weak, the characters don't develop, and the ending is predictable.
Reviewer’s Rating: 4
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice61Love it Love it2Funny Funny3Show all
76Show lessOpenGift

Jan 19, 2015
Lompa
Recommended
Yes, I may praise this anime to the skies but I think that a lot of people would agree with me.

I, like many others have watched Fullmetal Alchemist from 2003 and while that also was a very good anime I felt like it kind of went off track at the end, that is probably why I was overjoyed when Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood was announced.
I really feel like Brotherhood patched up all that went wrong with FMA-2003 and at the end it felt like the story was completed.

The characters and the story in this anime is outstanding, there are so many different characters and all of them have their own personalities. It's very interesting to follow them and see how they evolve through the serie.
For me it's very important that it does not only have strong male characters but also very strong female characters. I personally love animes (and mangas) that have very strong females and that doesn't go for the more typical type of female that we often see in animes and mangas.

This anime is truly epic and if you haven't watched it you should seriously reconsider. But be warned that you will probably become very emotional during the time you watch it.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice61Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
62Show lessOpenGift

Jan 2, 2025
RemanTheArchean
Not RecommendedFunnyFunny
It's kind of shocking to me how *this* is considered one of the best animes ever made. I wouldn't describe it as terrible, as it's reasonably well executed for what it is. The problem is that it's just so basic: a simplistic hero's journey with unambiguously evil villains and a fairly juvenile atmosphere throughout, despite the show usually taking itself very seriously. The writers were apparently scared of showing too much death in quick succession too frequently, so the heroes almost always refuse to kill the bad guys, and they neutralize henchmen by bonking them on the head and knocking them unconscious like it's a Saturday morning cartoon. There's nothing wrong with liking this type of stuff. I'll watch family films occasionally and enjoy myself. But I wouldn't call them, or this, transcendent in any way.

The show tries for comedy quite frequently, but the jokes rarely landed for me. Perhaps that's due to it having very few arrows in its quiver in this regard. It usually just involves characters overreacting in some goofy way. There's the "mistaking alphonse for the FMA" gag, the "Ed getting embarrassed about Winry" gag, the random shirtless scenes with Armstrong, and, of course, the many, *many* times that characters call Ed short. I don't think I've ever heard another series use the term "pipsqueak" as often as this one does.

The action scenes were also pretty lackluster. There's multiple layers to this. First, there's the show's inherent reluctance to show death, with characters getting stabbed with what should be grave wounds but end up just being moderately injured, or even shrugging it off entirely. Second, there's the classic anime mystery genre problem of characters simply manifesting new powers that resolve the situation whenever they're in danger, which rapidly conditions me to expect this kind of resolution whenever the good guys are in trouble. Third, the villains never seemed particularly committed to thwarting Ed and friends. They attack piecemeal and with little sustained intensity. I had thought this would be due to a later reveal that the bad guys had been purposely letting Ed disrupt their schemes, that it was "all part of the plan" especially given the scenes where Father is implied to be watching over everything, but this wasn't the case. Instead, it's revealed early on that Ed is needed as a "sacrifice" which effectively means he's immune from any major harm since the bad guys can't kill him, they can only harass his friends as an indirect punishment.

The mysteries and lore of the show were probably the best aspects, but that's a low bar to clear. Most of the twists could be predicted far ahead of time, and there were none that really shocked me.

Ed and Al are nowhere near as annoying as many other anime protagonists... but they're not particularly interesting either. They have fairly standard personalities and don't grow much over the course of the series.

The highest praise I can give Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is that it was decent enough to pass the time. If you're looking for something inoffensive then this show is fine I suppose. But there are so many other better alternatives out there.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice31Love it Love it3Funny Funny31Show all
96Show lessOpenGift

Sep 6, 2011
Dotter
Recommended
Best show I've ever seen.

Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is probably the best series I've ever seen. There are several reasons for this:

1) The story is truly compelling! It really grows on you, since the viewer wants the Elric brothers to reach their goal of getting their bodies back, because of their hard childhood, where their dad left home and their mother died. You grow a sympathy towards these two boys. The plot is amazing, though I don't want to spoil anything. The idea of Alchemy is great in my opinion. So I'll give the story: 10/10

2) The art is top notch, the fighting scenes are amazing and the backgrounds are beautiful. The characters are well-made and they actually seem really human, though they are animated. (Wrath's fighting scenes are awesome!) - Art: 9/10 (almost 10/10l)

3) The sounds in FMA Brotherhood is good, but still the show's weakest aspect. Sometimes the background music doesn't really fit, but it doesn't bring down the show. The opening and closing songs are really good, the second opening is one of my favourite Japanese songs. The genereal sounds and talking are good as well. - Sounds deserve a 9/10 (Close to 8/10, due to the background music being out of place at times).

4) What really made me love FMA: Brotherhood is the characters in the show. They are truly geniously put together. I am a twin brother myself, so I was really touched by Edward's and Alphonse's brotherhood, since I feel that I would go through the same shit as they do, only to help my brother.
Roy Mustang is a great character, who has quite some shadows of his yesterdays hanging on his shoulders. He has killed many men during some civil wars, which happened in the country.
Scar is also an important character, who was filled with hatred and seeks revenge on the State Alchemists, who destroyed the Ishbalans, who was Scar's people.
Louis Armstrong is a fun character, who brings a nice humourous aspect to the show with his Gai Sensei-like emotional and masculine behaviour.
There are tons of other great characters, I could go on forever, but these were the highlights to me.

5) All the reasons mentioned above made me enjoy this show more than I've enjoyed any other show. The plot is amazingly well-written and the characters are really believable and sometimes this show just bring the chills, since you really symphatize with the characters. The ending is just perfect, so I'll give FMA: Brotherhood the biggest 10/10 I've ever given to any show.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice61Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
61Show lessOpenGift

Mar 3, 2022
IBMLaptop
Not RecommendedPreliminary (18/64 eps)
Jesus where do I begin,

First of all, the story is NOT the incredible masterpiece everybody claims it is. The characters are shallow and filled with tropes and gags that are repeated CONSTANTLY. The art is ok I guess but none of the fight scenes that are promised in the openings actually seem to happen in the show itself, and besides the occasional flashy 5 seconds at the end of a fight there isn't much happening in the fight scenes.

The story feels incredibly rushed at times, which is strange considering that this was studio Bones' second attempt at this show. The sound is the best part of the show honestly as the sound effects are perfect, the voice acting is stellar, and the op and end themes are all bangers.

Overall I'm giving this show a 1 because not only is it seriously overrated; but it's also just not very good at all.
Reviewer’s Rating: 1
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice40Love it Love it11Funny Funny6Show all
69Show lessOpenGift

Jun 29, 2014
YaBoyLloydNinja
Recommended
Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood was the first anime I ever watched, and probably one of the best. The story is pretty simple, it's on MAL so I'm not explaining it. However, I will say this, this anime is sad. You wouldn't expect it from seeing the title or a picture. But this anime is as sad as Clannad: After Story or any other anime that tries to be emotional. I recently rewatched this anime, and I experienced the train ride I had. This anime has so many unexpected moments, especially towards the end. SPOILERS AHEAD: I think that Hughes should have had a bit more screen time, don't get me wrong I want to say that I cried. But the thing that made me sad were the reactions of the other characters with hughes dying. They made the aftermath perfect, but before that,9/10. A bit more and it would be perfect. You learn a lot of things in this anime, They apply to real world situations. Let's face it, when we wish for something big, we always sacrifice something. Like "I wish for Hoenn to be remade" Your wish comes true but you lose hope halfway. The characters were very enjoyable, the villains were great as well, Animation and Sound, perfect. Overall, my rating would be 9.9/10 which I would say is near perfect. This anime is incredible, and everyone should watch it. I may be a bit too much of a fanboy, but trust me, you'll love it.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice56Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
57Show lessOpenGift

Sep 5, 2010
LordTeapot
Mixed FeelingsPreliminary (30/64 eps)
Brotherhood boasts that it follows the mangas story more closely than the previous anime adaptation, and it does. However the actual quality of the anime itself is far poorer. What realy made FMA's previous anime adaptation so successfull was the overall direction of the anime. The quality of shots used in this anime and the art itself is inferior to the original anime. Obviously it is still highly enjoyable due to the story behind it, but the anime seems overhyped. People feel pressured to believe thats its better due to the story being more accuratly followed. This is not the way to think. The anime suffered hugely at first as well, as it attempted to catch up to the manga, thus rushing through over half of the story. The sound was not bad, but then again it was not that good.

FMA fanatics should enjoy this as it follows the manga more closely, however if you have not read the manga then I would reccomend the original series, as in all honesty it is of much better quality.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice57Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
59Show lessOpenGift

Mar 7, 2013
GilNic
Recommended
Story: 10

Following the lives of Edward and alphonse Elric the story takes us through a long journey filled with both good times and hardships as the meet new friends and foes, before the grand finale that really gives you the satisfaction you deserve. This anime has a great combination of everything needed to make a great, no fantastic anime. Interesting and unique characters, comedy, adventure, fighting, love a above all a fantastic story. the anime starts off with a fantasticaly animated fight giving the anime the kick start it deserves, as the anime moves on you get to know the characters and bond with them as they experience tragedies and moments of joy, you will see scenes bringing you to the edge of your seat with anticipation aswell as scenes that will make you cry rivers. its a great mix of fast paced action and emotional scenes. there are bad guys with strong ideals and sad stories that makes you feel compasion, aswell as bad guys whom you might despise. Everyone in this anime has their own story and the way each of their stories is told neatly ties them all together and creates a relationship, not just between you and the character but between the characters themselves, giving you the whole story in a way unique to Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood. The great way the story is told combined with the amazing plot and fantastic ending (yes this anime has an actual ending, not just that but its the one everyone was hoping for!) I give the story aswell as the anime a 10!

Art: 10

The character drawings aren´t over the top amazing, in fact their not all that special BUT the way each scene is drawn to match the mood perfectly is another story, moments of joy, sadness, anger, comedy aswell as the amazing fighting scenes gives the art a total rating of 10, there are no room for complaints as the characters move trough the greatness that is Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood, each character is unique, each scene is unique and the way the pentagrams, attacks and movements are drawn will bring you to the edge of your seat, the details are amazing, they will enchant you and make you wish for more!

Sound: 10

The OP´s and ED´s are both beatifull and accelerating, they work together with the animations creating a complete image of what you can expect from the anime aswell as making you want to see more right away!
The music used for the different moods in the anime really compliments the scenes aswell as beeing both beatifull and amazing to listen to depending on the scene, the music varies from slow paced beatifull pieces to the more fast paced dramatic pieces, most of the music used are orchestral music and although you may not be a fan of the music genre it wont matter as the music compliments the scenes so beatifully.

Character: 10

The characters in this anime are all unique, they have their own personalities, dreams and goals aswell as specialties.
The main characters are brothers who are where they are because of a certain event in the past, they are very tight and will do anything to protect eachother aswell as to help eachother return to how they used to be.
The other characters in this show are strong willed, passionate and will do anything to reach their goals. they each strive to do what they believe is right and through the story you will see the development in each of these characters as they head towards their destiny.

Enjoyment: 10

This should be pretty obvious by now so ill keep this one short.
The anime has everything, action, comedy, adventure, love, great characters, music, art and of course a fantastic story. This in of itself should tell you everything that you need to know, it keeps you at the edge of your seat, crying of joy, sorrow and anything else you might cry about. you will NEVER be bored something is always going on and theres never a moment where you will look away, toilet breaks will be something to be avoided because of the sheer awesomeness.

Overall: 10

So to summarize, this anime is something you cant miss, it´s a work of art (and im not just talking about the art ;) ) the story is great and has everything you could ever want, the art is fantastic and is greatly complimented by the sound/music. The characters are each unique and truly interesting and the enjoyment is at max every second of the anime!
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice51Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
52Show lessOpenGift

May 17, 2009
OsakaO_o
Mixed FeelingsPreliminary (7/64 eps)
It is rushed. Completely and utterly rushed.

I fully enjoyed the original FMA since episode 1. It was well thought out. However, Brotherhood is the completely opposite. Since the storyline completely rushed, it does not allow for explanation. The characters are introduced so quickly, making Brotherhood just like any other anime out there.

I was really looking forward to watching this new version (despite wishing for a continuation of the original series) since it followed the manga more accurately.

Brotherhood is a disappointment for me, but I will continue to watch it since I love the original FMA so much.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice56Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
60Show lessOpenGift

Dec 1, 2014
defunctmaluser
Recommended
If there's one programme out there which a tad frustrating for me, it's Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood. I don't know about you, but I'm absolutely sick of seeing reviews giving this show a 10/10. Don't get me wrong though, I absolutely adore Fullmetal Alchemist as a whole and I do believe that the adventures of Edward and Alphonse should be viewed by all at some point. But it's really the fans' reaction to this show that drive me up a wall. At its core, Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is a great show that does a lot of things right (and I do mean a LOT of shit right) but ends up getting some shit wrong along the way as well.

Of course, it's important to understand why this show was made before I get started with the actual review itself. Before Brotherhood ever existed, there was the first Fullmetal Alchemist TV series: a loose adaptation of the manga which eventually broke away from the source material in order to tell its own story. Now, this was important for two reasons. The first is because at the time of the first series' creation, there weren't that many chapters there to adapt so either Bones had to wing it or Arakawa had to sacrifice her creative integrity and succumb to both publisher deadlines AND studio pressure as well.

The second reason is the most important: because the first series branched off and became its own entity, that gave Hiromu Arakawa much more time to flesh out the manga's universe and go in the direction she so chooses without having to worry about things like deadlines as much. Talk shit all you want about the first TV series, but just keep in mind that without the first TV series, the manga as we know it right now would be vastly different and Brotherhood would in all likelihood not exist. Of course, the fact that the circumstances behind this show's creation rely so heavily on what went down in the first show does come back to bite Brotherhood in the ass. How so?

Well for one thing, the first 15 episodes of Brotherhood are rather... "rushed," I guess? Now, this was actually a stylistic choice on the part of Bones since the logic at the time of creation was that the vast majority of people who are watching this show would have already watched the 2003 series first so they didn't want to bore returning viewers by showing them the same stuff they saw before. While that certainly is a respectable goal, there's only one little problem with that logic: this is supposed to be a REBOOT of the anime series. If you're going to reboot something, any prior entries in the franchise shouldn't even be factored into the equation.

Now granted, I did complete Brotherhood first before going on to complete the 2003 series and nothing really seemed out-of-place, but upon re-watching after completing the 2003 series... it just didn't really feel the same. For instance, there's the whole ordeal with Nina Tucker. If you've spent ANY amount of time around the FMA fandom, you should have *some* idea that what happens to this 4-year-old girl is NOT pretty. In the 2003 series however, the Tucker family's role was expanded and we got to see more of Nina before "it" happened (and let me just say that the entire thing was fucking depressing after "it" happened).

In Brotherhood... Nina is just around for one episode and after tragedy befalls her, she's apparently one of the driving forces behind Edward and Alphonse's goals of becoming better alchemists. Let me get this straight: a little girl that you didn't even know for more than a week is going to be one of the driving forces behind our lead protagonists' goals for the entire series' run? Yeah... I'm not buying it. Yes, what happened to her is sad but I find it incredibly hard to believe that an incident like that to someone that Ed and Al barely knew would have THAT much of an impact on them. There are WAY more examples like that than I let on, by the way. I just don't feel like covering them all since that's far too much work on my end.

Another aspect about Brotherhood I take umbrage with is the comedy. To put it short, I don't really care much for Hiromu Arakawa's chibi-style humour since it just takes me out of the seriousness of the moment and just kills the mood altogether in a vein similar to Kuroshitsuji. Of course, that's not really a fair comparison since Bones is a far more competent studio than A-1 Pictures but it's still something to be mentioned. You can only imagine my frustration whenever I saw Ed go into chibi mode right after some intense action or a relatively serious moment goes down. I mean, yeah it gets a quiet chuckle out of me but do you really have to resort to THAT style of humour to elicit a laugh or two out of the viewers? Come on...

The last thing that I don't really have a lot of praise for is the fact that despite the fact that it's definitely a cut above its competition in the battle shonen genre, it still FEELS like a battle shonen series in all the wrong ways from time to time. Don't get me wrong, Hiromu Arakawa really put in a lot of thought and effort into writing up the story and the characters but you can just tell where she got lazy and resorted to using some of the same clichés that plague other battle shonen anime/manga series. They're few and far between, but when they pop up, chances are that you'll instinctively face-palm (especially if there's some bullshit monologue about friendship; I'm looking at you, final fight between Envy and Roy Mustang >_>).

Now with all that ugliness out of the way, let's talk positives because hot DAMN is there a lot of praise to give this show. When it comes down to world-building, Hiromu Arakawa is all but unmatched. The world that Brotherhood is set in is masterfully crafted, with a lot of detail put into the locations that each part of the story takes place in. It's quite evident that the biggest reason why the manga took so long to complete would be that Hiromu Arakawa spent a great deal of time fleshing out the finer details of the locations that she brings up. In fact, the only works that I can think of that would be on equal or better footing than Brotherhood would be the likes of Harry Potter, Hunter x Hunter, One Piece, and Legend of the Galactic Heroes.

Another thing that Brotherhood has going for it is the adventure. I don't know about you, but I always found myself enamoured with the new locations and such that Ed and Al would come across on their journeys. From Lior to Fort Briggs and even the ruins of Xerxes, I never cease to find myself captivated by what's going on. What's more is that the adventure from start to finish (with the exception of the first 15 episodes) is incredibly well-paced. No segment of the adventure feels drawn out to the point of being tedious or rushed to the point where nothing of substance actually happens and that segment could've easily been cut out. Each part of the narrative feels necessary to the plot and is given just enough time to make its impact before we move on to the next part of the story.

Speaking of which, one of the biggest complaints I see people lodging against the 2003 series is its supposed lack of action. Well Brotherhood makes up for that supposed weakness in full force. At its core, the Fullmetal Alchemist manga is a battle shonen manga and what battle shonen adaptation would be complete without epic fights? All the fights in Brotherhood are perfectly timed, so they're not hideously drawn nor are they dissatisfyingly short. What's more is that battles are only present in episodes where a fight NEEDS to go down for the sake of plot, so there are no pointless fights thrown in for the hell of it so the fights themselves don't detract from the story in the slightest.

Battles, adventures, and a masterfully crafted setting aren't the only thing that Brotherhood has going for it. Surprising though it may be, battle shonen series are actually able to have some damn good drama thrown into the mix which is more than capable of having you emotionally involved with what's going on and that's one of the hallmarks surrounding Fullmetal Alchemist as a whole. Whilst the focus of Brotherhood is more on the adventure than it is the drama, that doesn't stop the show from being able to have more than its fair share of compelling and emotionally involving moments.

The last thing that I want to talk about story-wise before I move on to the characters is the ending. The biggest reason why the 2003 series is so divisive amongst FMA fans as a whole is how the series itself actually concluded. The 2003 series' original conclusion was nothing short of bitter-sweet, with a MUCH heavier emphasis on the bitter than the sweet, even in the sequel movie Conqueror of Shamballah. Brotherhood's ending is the exact opposite. It is a happy ending in every sense of the word which fans found INFINITELY more satisfying than what was there previously. As the great Nobuhiro Watsuki said, shonen series are ultimately comics meant for boys and they should have happy endings. Why? Well... boys are young. Save the depressing shit for when they're older and develop a nasty drinking problem.

If there's one area where Fullmetal Alchemist will always succeed (regardless of incarnation), it would definitely have to be with the characters. Of course with that said, Brotherhood is a more event-driven programme rather than character-driven so character development isn't really a priority. For example, Ed and Al more or less remain the same throughout their entire ordeal. They don't degenerate as individuals, yet they also don't improve or even change in any notable way throughout the entire show's run. Regardless, Ed's characterisation is absolutely spectacular.

What I really love about Ed's characterisation is the fact that despite going through a great deal of strife in his life, he knows how to laugh and have fun. He rebels against authority from time to time, he and Al fight like brothers do, he has childish outbursts from time to time, etc. What I'm getting at is that despite all of the crap he's gone through, he still behaves like a teenager would. In many ways, Ed reminds me of Peter Parker from the Ultmate Spider-Man comics and that resemblance really does boost him up several notches on my likeability meter. His dynamic with Alphonse is also something that I enjoy quite a bit because it feels a bit like Terry McGinnis/Maxine Gibson's relationship from Batman Beyond.

Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about Alphonse. Throughout the course of Fullmetal Alchemist (this applies to the manga and both TV series), Alphonse more or less remains static throughout the entire show's run and doesn't get any characterisation beyond functioning as the Maxine Gibson to Edward's Terry MicGinnis and being the gentle giant/naive younger sibling. Any sort of subplot that seemed like it would add more to his character don't really play out as such so we're basically back to where we started. Take the part where Al doubts his own humanity for instance. You'd think that would be like a REALLY huge thing, but no... it gets resolved within 1-2 episodes and Al is back to re-transmuting Ed's soul once Winry knocks it out of Ed's body with her wrench... oh well, such is life.

The secondary characters in Fullmetal Alchemist have always been of variable quality, and the same remains true in Brotherhood (perhaps even more so because Brotherhood has a MUCH larger supporting cast). Some characters like Roy Mustang, Greed, Scar, Father, and Fuhrer Bradley are REALLY well-written with their own degrees of complexity while others like Lust, Sloth, and Gluttony didn't really have much to their personality aside from being antagonists. I know that this shit is to be expected, but Hiromu Arakawa REALLY outdid herself when it came down to all this other stuff, and when I don't see that level of quality maintained throughout the work, it just leaves me feeling empty inside.

On the technical side of things, Brotherhood is definitely among the best-looking shows that Bones has ever produced, but this is obviously to be expected. Bones is no slouch when it comes down to visual quality. Hell, even shows that they created more than a decade ago like RahXephon and Wolf's Rain hold up pretty damn well in 2014. If I had to sum up my thoughts on the visuals, I'd have to say that Brotherhood's aesthetics are more or less identical to the 2003 show's, but refined. Character designs are more in-line with the manga's, improvements in animation technology allow for less still frames/talking heads present, and what's more is that there's a good deal more background animation present. Speaking of which, Brotherhood's action is bar none some of the most enthralling that I've ever seen in ANY shonen anime.

Another area where Brotherhood excels are in the OPs/EDs. It's rare for me to find an anime that I enjoy have multiple openings, all of which that I actually do like. Personally, I'm biased toward the 5th OP, as it's the opening that really just sets the stage perfectly for the final few episodes of Brotherhood. It has this atmosphere about it where everyone's weary and yet they're so close to their goal that they can't just give up now and that what I'm about to watch really is the home stretch. ED-wise, I'm biased toward the 1st ED because of the animation style as it's all-chibi artwork animated as if it were drawn in pencil with a great track playing over it. That actually brings me over to the audio side of the spectrum.

Audio-wise, Brotherhood doesn't disappoint... asterisk. Now there is one complaint that I have with the OST but that's mostly because the 2003 show's OST is among my all-time favourite anime OSTs and yet Brotherhood just didn't live up to my expectations upon re-watch. This is a similar problem that I had with Hellsing Ultimate in the sense that its predecessor's OST is superior to my ears than the OST that we have for the reboot despite the fact that the one present is REALLY good stuff. There wasn't much in the way of background music that stood out, although it did serve as a complement to whatever was going on and there wasn't anything that I personally found inappropriate for the moment at hand. My favourite OP/ED themes are "Rain" and "Uso" by SID respectively, just so I can get that out of the way.

Dub-wise, Funimation steps up to the plate and delivers in full force. The cast is almost identical to the 2003 series' dub (which is one of my all-time favourite Funimation dubs, by the way), save for certain characters because let's face it: there's no way you can get the same people to work on a project they had a hand in 5-6 years ago all in one place. The most noticeable changes to the cast are Maxey Whitehead replacing Aaron Dismuke as Alphonse, Troy Baker replacing Chris Patton as Greed, J. Michael Tatum replacing Dameon Clark as Scar, and John Swasey aka Gendo Ikari replacing Scott McNeil as Hohenheim.

I can safely say that Whitehead, Baker, Tatum, and Swasey all do an excellent job with the roles they were given and are on-par if not better than their predecessors... although I'm biased toward Chris Patton's version of Greed for... reasons. The rest of the dub is spot-on. Vic Mignonga, Travis Willingham, Caitlin Glass, Colleen Clinkenbeard, Laura Bailey, and everyone else who had a hand to play in this dub did an absolutely spectacular job. I'd like to hear dub haters try and talk shit about this dub, because I can't find anything wrong with it.

Final thoughts? Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is a shining example of what an adaptation SHOULD do, and yet it baffles me as to how people can consider this to be the best anime ever and something that is infinitely superior to the 2003 series. Despite my preference of the 2003 series, I'd say that they're equals. It's not often we get TWO adaptations which have VERY well-written plots and if you really are a manga purist, you can view the 2003 series as an alternate universe interpretation. Regardless, I absolutely enjoyed watching Brotherhood and I look forward to the day where I can own a DVD/Blu-ray combo pack of the entire show. Both the 2003 series and Brotherhood should be watched by all and both deserve a special place on your shelf of interesting items.

With that said, I'm out. Feedback is always welcome, as are monetary contributions and offerings of food, drinks, chromosomes and fancy clothes to the Dark Lord Chin-Chin.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice49Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
50Show lessOpenGift

May 31, 2024
Quaker020
Not RecommendedFunnyFunny
I see why people like this show for it's setting, but I only enjoyed watching FMA:B for about 5% of the time.

- The main characters lack depth, growth and consistency. I feel like most of the main characters are almost entirely the same, from beginning to end. The same motivations, the same actions. There are a few exceptions, but that is nowhere near enough to redeem the rest.
-- Ironically, the side characters are WAY more fun / interesting.

- The plot is predictable from beginning to end, with the exception of some minor plot twists. Moreover, it's quite THIN. In my opinion, it really felt like nothing happened for about 40 episodes, leading up to the predictable finale of the show.

- As a result, pacing felt horrible. I found myself sitting through a few dozen episodes, because I knew what was coming and it just kept taking longer and longer.

- The art is sometimes incredible, but almost always boring. Mustang's fire blew my MIND at times, but the endless still frames and unimpressing visuals really tired me.

- Combat feels very weird for power level / plot reasons. The main characters have so much power, yet barely use any of it, often times. (What is the POINT of hand-to-hand combat if you can crush people between brick walls?)

+ The main redeeming part of this anime is the power system. Such cool intricacies, variations, flavors, visuals. And the underlying mechanics are super interesting!

I restarted FMA:B three times after dropping it before. I sat through it because I wanted to know why it's so loved. Sadly, I did not enjoy it and I would definitely not recommend someone watch 64 episodes of it. I found it VERY unrewarding, the whole way through.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice37Love it Love it3Funny Funny23Show all
107Show lessOpenGift

Jun 26, 2014
crimson-oath
Recommended
After watching Fullmetal Alchemist, I was left with an unsatisfied feeling. Everything felt rushed, and the twists and turns lacked gravitas. So it was with great scepticism that I continued on to watch Brotherhood. Quickly, my fears about this remake were dispelled and I was hooked. Four days and 64 episodes later, I'm at the end and I'm blown away.

I do strongly suggest you watch FMA before moving onto Brotherhood. FMA was good, had a lot of entertainment value, but half the things I wanted to see didn't happen - and I haven't even read the manga yet. But in Brotherhood you get everything you expected to see and more.

The relationship between Edward and Alphonse feels so much more real in FMA Brotherhood. I can actually see their bond and believe that they'd do anything to get their bodies back. In FMA, I wanted to see more brotherly moments, and I just didn't get that until Brotherhood.

Winry had a much bigger role to play in Brotherhood than she did in FMA. Her interactions with Ed and Al we hilarious and touching, and the three of them really drive this story all the way. You never stop rooting for them and you never stop hoping that they can right their wrongs and get their bodies back.

Another favourite duo was Mustang and Hawkeye. I loved seeing the two of them together, because they just played off each other really well. They were there for each other through thick and thin and every scene they had together was a delight to watch.

FMA Brotherhood left me on the edge of my seat. I couldn't stop watching, and when I had to because I needed sleep, I swear that all I could think about was FMA Brotherhood, the characters, and where I thought this anime would go.

I strongly recommend this!
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice48Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
48Show lessOpenGift

Jun 17, 2015
Npk005
Recommended
This is hands down the anime which is for sure in my top five anime. this anime had all of the things fully packed in it. First the story, it is amazingly written with none to zero plot hole. The story is in my opinion a masterpiece and can be said as a complete series. This anime doesn't strechs out to another season and give us a full compelet story in one series. It doesn't matter if you have seen the first installment of the series ( full metal alchemist) because this anime shows all the information to us, viewer, in full complete story. The character in this anime is well blanced. Even though it has two main characters in it, The characters gets enough development to get viewer feel about them as the story progresses.

In the end, I would say the whole anime series of full metal alchemist brotherhood is a straight up masterpiece and every person in the anime community should give it a try. It deserves to be number one in the mal top anime list.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10