Attack On Titan reviews: 

Oct 2, 2014
Sorrowful
Recommended
Oh dear Shingeki no Kyojin, where do I even begin. If you've talked with your friends about anime, then the couple anime that everyone talks about are Naruto, Bleach, One Piece, Dragon Ball, and... Shingeki no Kyojin. What's the difference between Shingeki and the rest? Shingeki only has 25 episodes so far yet it's on par in popularity with the other super long, Americanized anime. Why is it popular? Well that's simply because it's stunningly amazing. Those people that call Shingeki no Kyojin "overrated" may not have the same taste as me, and that's perfectly fine, but in my honest opinion, Shingeki no Kyojin is one of if not the greatest anime to be made. It's not popular for no reason.

The story is one of the most captivating stories I've ever seen. 100 years prior to the start of the anime, humanity has been on the bridge of extinction due to the monstrous humanoid Titans that devour humans. Now, present day in the anime, the remaining small population of mankind lives confined within 3 "heavenly" walls that are so tall and sturdy that even the titans can't break in. The most outward wall was named, Wall Maria, the middle wall was named Wall Rose, and the most outward wall named Wall Sina. Unfortunately for mankind, a colossal titan, one that is even bigger than the 50 meter heavenly walls, breaks Wall Maria, allowing the other titans to rampage the city, thus leading to another massacre of mankind. During this massacre, our main characters, Eren Yeager and Mikasa Ackerman watch in horror as a horrifying titan rips their mother's head off, then gobbles her up whole. Vowing that he'd one day avenge mankind and exterminate all the titans, Eren Yeager trains to become a survey corp, brave heroic soldiers who go outside the walls, into the plains in order to fight the titans. But we soon find out, that Eren is much more special than he seems, not only is he a brave warrior, but he's also something else that could be the key to humanity's survival, but could also be humanity's destruction.

My 3-word thoughts on the anime: Epic, Dynamic, Masterpiece. The suspense build-up was absolutely amazing, yet there was still room for improvement; that shows just how epic this anime can get. The anime not only includes epic fights, but lots of dialogue, and for those of you that hate dialogue, I feel sorry for you people whom only watch for action. The anime includes lots of other things as well: there's lots of half-hearted, hilarious scenes, as well as sad, tragic scenes. The anime certainly has a good amount of gore, and will break your heart frequently (if you get attached to the characters). Many characters end up getting gobbled up mercilessly while trying to protect humanity in ways that are quite *shivers*. Have I teared up in the anime? As a matter of fact, I have.

Characters was another area (alongside every area) that was Shingeki's strongpoint. There's a diverse variety of characters that fight for humanity for all different reasons. There's trust, friendship, along with betrayals, and pains. There's comedy relief among many characters, especially Sasha "Potato Girl" Blouse. There are characters that people can definitely relate with, such as Armin Arlert, who wants to do the right thing and protect his friends, but can't seem to do much because of fear. Fear is something that haunts us all, and prevents us from doing things in life. Another character that people can somewhat relate with is Annie Leonhardt, who fights alongside humanity, yet fights opposed to humanity. What does that mean? Watch the anime. Why is she doing this? Because of her past scars, "scars have the strange power to remind us that our past is real" (watch to find out more). There were too many characters to development fully, but certainly the main characters were developed to their max. Levi is certainly a fan-favorite character, because of the fact that he's cool, overpowered, badass, kind-in-the-heart, smart, straight-to-the-point, and most of all, hilarious with all his neat-freakiness. The main character, Eren Yeager is strong-hearted, and "special", but he's still not strong enough to defeat the titans. How he develops is one of the most interesting things, in this interesting-things-packed anime.

The art and music can be described in one word: WOW! The art drawings were absolutely stunning! From the characters/titans to the setting of the story to all the equipment used in battle. The characters all had a unique aspect to them. The settings of the anime were beautiful. The cities, and walls looked realistic, the plains that characters dreamed of seeing made me want to run outside to see for myself how beautiful nature really is, and how humans under appreciate the naturality of nature. The 3-D gear was something that really caught my eye, and will certainly catch other people's eyes as well. A new form of action that's never been seen before. The characters would literally fly from rooftop to rooftop slicing their swords at the titans at high-speeds that keep the viewers eyes locked onto the screen at all times. The soundtrack in the anime was epic as shit. The openings speak for themselves, they do the anime justice. The openings were epic and certainly set the mood of what was to come from the anime. "They're the prey, and we are the hunters!" The rest of the soundtrack in the anime was okayasgduyasgda AMAZING. How can one describe how amazing those German OSTs were. They fit in perfectly with the epicness of the anime, and certianly added tons of suspense to the 3-D maneuver gear action.

Of course, I may be over-thinking things, but the anime certainly included some themes while creating this masterpiece of an anime. The aspect of being confined in an area, doing the same daily routine every day. People seek to be free, and to seek adventure. Watch for this. Another theme that the anime incorporated was that of the cycle of life. Humans, we steal animals away from their families, we kill them, we eat them. What's so different from us, and the titans? The feelings of not being at the top of the food chain... Anyways, if you haven't already watched this anime and you're reading this review, then you've clearly been living under a rock all this time, and I definitely encourage you to watch this show even if it isn't your style of anime.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice1731Love it Love it32Funny Funny8Show all
1792Show lessOpenGift

May 7, 2014
Gladius650
Recommended
I started to follow the manga after watching the anime and quite frankly I don't see where and how the plot of Shingeki no Kyojin can suck, which in my humble opinion is awsome. You can understand the anime very well even without having read the manga. However, SNK isn't understood by many because it's a psychological manga .. SNK isn't just a succession of empty and meaningless clashes and, of uncontrolled violence, stereotyped heroes who fight the bad (like Bleach). Here are shown the darkest sides of the human psyche with great mastery: the desire to be the best but can't do it, the difference between men, their different modes of action (just think about the speech when Eren was discovered in which they show the reactions of the inhabitants of the inner walls Rose) and their motivations, some of the questionable actions that seems to be made in the right and instead the Justice of others that superficially seems foolish and petty (such as the choice of sending refugees to rebuild the wall Mary), freedom and the fact that they don't understand that what others inculcate to us sometimes are nothing more than mental cages. We stop at the appearances only because it suits us ( the walls is a symbol of that). Omitting the main and masterfully developed theme of "Homo omini lupus".
In this anime there are no heroes! There are not brave men, without fear, that kill all the wicked. Here there are people who are fighting against their own fear and that sometimes they make it and sometimes not. The enemies aren't the giants !Although the anime does not say from where they come from and I won't do spoilers, it's repeated several times that the enemies are the human beings with their fear (who have surrendered to the giants without doing anything, ignoring and accepting to live like cattle) and the walls! But no one notices that because it would be too challenging to make two questions and wondering: "Why the walls ? Shouldn't they be their salvation?" and get an answer.
The fact that many people aren't well characterized, and that physically are not very different from each other isn't a coincidence .. Isayama is putting on the same level all human beings, he is saying that we are all like that guy who shoots himself alone after he surrendered to fear, that we are all as Vernam (who during the attack fled from Trost ), that there is some of us who is better than others, but that we all live under the same fears, and even if we react differently, we act according to substantially the same nature. It still tells us that we might be the protagonists of our life, choosing our destiny, but only if we are ready to go beyond the stereotypes and mindsets that others impose to us, only if only if we work with all our strength. Because living by what others tell us, from what they show us, isn't to live, but survive!
And in addition to all the various points of reflection that SNK has to offer (and there are many, not just those listed ), there is a plot full of twists and turns, the suspense. In short, it is a masterpiece.
Then, if you are used to an anime where the bad guys magically becomes good after a lesson or in which the characters acquire super powers from nothing or from old men who appearing in their minds... Well, ok ...... that ... that's original and profound ........
(Hope my english was not so bad) :)
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice1008Love it Love it4Funny Funny3Show all
1018Show lessOpenGift

Aug 8, 2014
SonDavid
Recommended
In the 80's, Mobile Suit Gundam catapulted anime in Japan.

In the 90s, Dragon Ball Z broke the mainstream walls while Neon Genesis Evangelion opened the doors to the now indispensable late-night anime slots in Japan.

In the 2000s, Fullmetal Alchemist marked the peak of manga-to-anime adaptations while Code Geass & Death Note headed the class of those who introduced the new anti-hero genre.

And now, in 2013, Attack on Titan has shaken the industry once again.

Unless you've been living under a rock for the past 5 months, you should at least know what the story is about, and for the sake of staying spoiler free, I'm not going into details on the plot.

Before I wrote this review, I wrote a different piece moments after watching the first episode stating that Attack on Titan had all the potential to become a landmark anime, knowing very little of how true that statement would turn out to be.

I have watched anime ever since I can remember. I have seen the very best and the worst that this industry has to offer. And I, like most of you, am very familiar with the relationship of manga-anime adaptation, which is the case of Attack on Titan. It is because of such experience and knowledge that I am able to say with so much confidence that Attack on Titan is the best anime series ever produced from any standpoint, at least, in the last decade.

Attack on Titan is such a well-done product that it has all the key strong points we all dream every series could have. By this I mean the story, characters, animation, OST, opening/ending sequences, art, directing, narrative, character development, and, most importantly, the "it" factor. These are all present with "A grade" production values.

First of all, I want to start with the OST. Simply put, Attack on Titan's soundtrack rivals that of Rurouni Kenshin and Evangelion. Period. Don't misunderstand, they are not similar by any means, they are simply equally as masterful. Check on the internet the impressions left by fans about the first soundtrack. And if you still don't believe me, tweet Hideo Kojima (creator of Metal Gear series) and ask his take on it.

The OST is extremely important in this show because it allows you to feel the many epic moments that dwell in this 25 episode marvel. This is where the directing and narrative play a big role. For those of you who have seen Death Note (same director), you will feel an extra feeling of similarity with Attack on Titan, as the show relies heavily on its intense emotional scenes which you most certainly will feel the first 2 minutes of episode #1.

It is in these scenes where the golden cast of characters shine. I cannot stress enough how unique the characters are. You could say they are the cream of the many accolades that Attack on Titan has. I'm still amazed by the quality of voice actors that just seem to just pop out in this show. The voices of so many main characters from hit series come together in Attack on Titan to help provide that epic feeling you start to get once episode #1 ends. Note I emphasize the voice acting because it's part of the anime but, obviously, not of the manga.

Another key strong point is the work and effort put on the OP/ED sequences. If you've come this far in my review then you most likely understand when I say that Openings and Ending sequences are crucial. They provide that extra excitement to the show. It's definitely something not all anime series take seriously. Fortunately, Wit Studio took them seriously, and then came "Guren no Yumiya". The second opening, "Jiyuu no Tsubasa" is outstanding and marvelous in its own way and the second ending, "great escape", fuels that adrenaline rush of excitement you will get after those killing cliffhangers. Having said that, the first OP, "Guren no Yumiya", is simply epic. If there was ever something to describe as epic, it would be this OP. I am certain that as of today, it is the greatest anime opening ever. I'm amazed by the amount of attention it got on the internet and the hundreds of parodies derived from it. It was simply a treat to our eyes. The song. The animation in the opening. The sync between the two. Epic.

You won't be skipping that opening.

In addition, an animation production is never as close to perfection without the animation and art being top class. Now, Attack on Titan has astonishing art, to the point where you are amazed of how far animation has come. The scenes where there is sunlight will leave you speechless. The animation, unlike the other aspects, is where some disagree. The only thing I have to say is I was extremely impressed throughout the whole show until I saw a certain scene in episode #11 where the 3D maneuver gear was used, and I was stunned. I was simply stunned. Then, of course, later episodes also take it to a whole new level, but you're probably gonna be used to that quality of greatness by then.

That's how ridiculously good Attack on Titan is.

Now, like the characters, the story is mostly work of the manga's author. This includes character development, which I believe is the key to the success and extreme popularity of the characters. Also, the story maybe the most original aspect of this series. Nothing you have seen before is in this show. Nothing. Much like EVA, Attack on Titan gives you a world of "dystopia", on-edge, and uncertainty, so full of potential that just when you think you have it figured it out, it turns around and leaves you speechless.

Oh, that will happen to you for the first time in episode #5. Guaranteed.

Finally, even IF all these characteristics of an anime series are top notch, it won't amount to its potential if it doesn't have that "IT" factor. Some series have the "IT" factor without having all of these production values. They tend have 3 or 4 at most. Those become popular because they give out that feeling of "amazing". Gintama, the greatest gag series ever, comes to mind. Its anime doesn't have overwhelming OST, or eye popping animation; it does have A class characters and A class story (among others), but that "IT" factor takes it to another level. Now, imagine having practically everything an anime series has to offer in A class value while also having that "IT" factor. Extremely rare. Eva rare. FMA rare. Attack on Titan is part of that elite group. This is why its popularity rose to highs only few series reach.

This is the first time I have ever written a detailed review of an anime series. I did it because this one deserves it. It's The anime series of my adult era. I can now relate to those anime fans who watched Evangelion almost 20 years ago. They knew they had something special, just like we do now with Attack on Titan.

In conclusion, Attack on Titan is, of course, like MS Gundam, DBZ, EVA, FMA, Geass, and Death Note, not perfect. Like any other piece of greatness it does have its negatives. Having said that, when you add up the good and the bad, you end up with a landmark anime series that is currently shaking the industry with its mesmerizing, sensational, emotional, intense, and inspiring first season. Just imagine the wait and the hype for season 2.

What kind of effect will Attack on Titan have on the anime/manga industry we love? Only time will tell...

In the meantime, this is simply the best anime series in the last 15 years. Enjoy.

Exquisite beyond words.
101/100.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice830Love it Love it9Funny Funny2Show all
855Show lessOpenGift



Feb 19, 2014
Kerma_
Mixed Feelings
Shingeki no Kyojin... Where do I start?

In summary, Shingeki no Kyojin is a perfect anime to get somebody who loves action started on anime- I think it is literally the most mainstream anime ever made, and that is definitely not a bad thing. But with this comes downsides- ones not apparent to the viewer at first glance, but looking back on it after watching it around the time it first came out, definitely shine through.

Shingeki no Kyojin starts off with a roar- the first 2 episodes explode right out of the gate with high-octane action that also leaves mystery to draw the viewer in. Who are the titans? What is in the basement? Why is Eren's dad so creepy? All this and more the viewer asks themselves as the end credits roll for episode 2.

Then episode 3 and 4 jump in. It's a training scene for Eren and his friends, and it's dead slow in comparison. But that's ok- it's episodes like this that reinforce character development and get the plot rolling. And soon, the episodes with action will begin again, right? That High-Octane, bloody, gory action we've all been waiting for!

Well, it does. But then shortly after, it grinds back to a halt. Why do I bring up the first 5 episodes out of all things to mention about Shingeki no Kyojin? Because it perfectly frames the pacing of the entire anime. First you're baited with that sweet, bloody action that makes you just stare at the screen in amazement of the beautiful animation and heart-pumping soundtrack, and next thing you know you have to sit through an hour of people arguing over the same issue over and over before going back to the action. This would be fine and acceptable if it actually resulted in plot and character development going somewhere- but rarely this bickering between Armin and Eren result in anything productive.

Actually, Shingeki no Kyojin seems to show perfectly how to pull off the ILLUSION of plot and character development- Eren struggling with his inner demons despite somehow going back to square 1 every 5 episodes, the Basement which has been explicitly mentioned as having "all the answers" being completely forgotten about while the group goes out to hunt titans, and Armin rehashing what we already know to other characters every episode or two. All of this combined create a huge mess that on first glance seems like a deep and interesting story, but only through reflection of a different lens you begin to notice how shallow the pool you're standing in really is. The characters are shallow, the story tries to go somewhere but the characters almost seem to prevent it from moving at all, and at some points the story tries to go to too many places at once, just confusing the viewer until the next trippy action scene kicks in.

I like to compare Shingeki no Kyojin to a Michael Bay film. This also makes it easier to understand what I'm trying to say (and trust me, it's not your fault- I have a hard time expressing what I feel in words sometimes).

Imagine Eren as Shia Labeouf, and Shingeki no Kyojin as a typical summer blockbuster by Michael Bay. Eren zips around the scenes of the movie, fighting bad-guys and pulling off amazing stunts with beautifully rendered graphics and an amazing ost- but then hardcut to Eren getting mad at himself and people around him but not actually advancing the plot for 1/3rd of the movie as the action grinds to a halt. Add some comedic relief (if you want a Bay comparison, the classic transformers out of place masturbation joke fits well) including possibly some potatoes after a traumatic scene and then slap on the illusion of having a deep plot and you have Shingeki no Kyojin. It's a typical summer blockbuster! You go in, watch it, enjoy it, then leave and forget about it! I'm really not saying you're not allowed to enjoy it because it's shallow and noisy, I'm just saying you shouldn't walk in expecting a revolutionary masterpiece of anime- which is what some critics are raising it up to be.

STORY- 4 : The story's foundations are put up well, but the actual progression falls flat as no questions are ever really answered and the plot never seems to want to go in a single direction.
ART- 9 : The art is amazing! There are some worse-off scenes and some animation glitches, but the art is one of the things that makes Shingeki no Kyojin stand out from the crowd. Even though I am not a huge fan of the anime itself, I have a massive poster above my computer of it as we speak.
SOUND- 10 : While the music and sound design is generic at worst, it is composed beautifully and always reinforces the mood set out by the show. I would highly recommend a download of the OST.
CHARACTER- 3 : Easily the worst part of Shingeki no Kyojin. Eren's constant back and forth attitude and behaviour that never goes anywhere, Armin's arguing with people that last an entire episode simply to recap what just happened on screen, Mikasa's constant fight to try and save everyone and pull everything together: it's just all poorly done.
ENJOYMENT- 6 : While watching Shingeki no Kyojin, I certainly enjoyed it- but I wouldn't say I enjoyed it the whole way through. Even while watching it, I noticed a lot of the fighting and arguing was going on too long, and let's not forget the 3-5 episodes of riding on horses. But the scenes that were enjoyable- notably the fight scenes and the pivotal plot twists certainly left a lot to talk about and were enjoyable enough to at least somewhat wipe away two annoying characters yelling at eachother on horses for 30 minutes.

OVERALL- 5: Watch it, get what you get out of it, but don't walk in expecting the next amazing revolutionary anime. Expect a summer blockbuster.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice794Love it Love it2Funny Funny34Show all
857Show lessOpenGift

Nov 4, 2014
emberreviews
Recommended
Every once in a while, and even more frequently now than in the past, an anime appears that is completely and unequivocally shrouded in layers upon layers of hype and popularity from the anime community. It's the show that's on everyone lips, as well as everyone's TV screens. In the Fall of 2011, The Future Diary created an exceptional level of hype that had not been seen for quite some time. When the Summer of 2012 rolled along, it was time for Sword Art Online to take the spotlight, and its own popularity grew to heights far beyond that of The Future Diary. Then, in the Spring of 2013, we were treated to what one could consider the Game of Thrones or the Breaking Bad of the anime industry in terms of sheer popularity; a show that completed engulfed the entire anime community, dwarfing even SAO in popularity, but is this anime truly worthy of the hype that it received?

Our story is set in an alternate universe where, 100 years prior to the events of the story, giant humanoid creatures known as Titans appeared and began consuming and decimating the human population, though with no apparent purpose for doing so. In response, the remainder of humanity built three enormous, circular walls to encompass their entire population and keep the Titans at bay. In this world, we meet three young children Eren Yeager, his adopted sister Mikasa, and their friend Armin, as they live out their peaceful lives in the southernmost city at the edge of the outer wall, Wall Maria. This soon changes, however, when a 60-meter Titan smashes through the main gate of Wall Maria, allowing Titans to freely enter the city and devour every human in sight, and forcing those who lived in the outer districts to retreat behind Wall Rose. During the chaos, Eren witnesses his mother being eaten by a Titan, and now he, Mikasa, and Armin have joined the military in the hopes of acquiring the skills necessary to take vengeance on the creatures that destroyed their lives.

This series, as a whole, has almost completely mastered the art of building suspense, mostly through the use of very long plot arcs. There always seems to be something constantly pushing towards a conclusion, but not actually getting there until several episode later, and that push factor creates a sensation of rarely ever wanting to stop watching for fear of the resolution being just after the episode you just watched. Additionally, this series is also a master of what I call the "morale builder," something that Gurren Lagann has shown mastery of in the past, and there are dozens of moments throughout the series where, no matter how grim and horrifying the situation, it provides an uplifting or rallying feeling that both immerses you in the world its sets up and makes you root for our heroes to the bitter end.

Speaking of grim and horrifying, that comparison to Game of Thrones earlier was far from being an off-handed comment. By this I mean that I hope you don't enjoy getting attached to characters, like I do, as you may find yourself curled up in a corner at some point. In the world of fiction, particularly in action series, there is a concept called "plot armor," which basically means that characters who seem crucial to the plot's progression and the show's stability as a whole are protected from death or other nasty fates that might await them. In this regard, the plot armor for Attack on Titan is about as thick as a used piece of tin foil, and deaths of major characters are frequent and often times unrelenting. In regards to this, and on a more personal note, there are only three anime that have actually made me legitimately cry before. Two of them were KyoAni series, and the third was Attack on Titan. This show really does not care about who your favorite character is, and if you've made it this far without having had the major deaths in the series spoiled for you yet, then consider yourself lucky.

Unfortunately, there is one minor flaw with this series. There are certain points, especially at some slightly slower moments in the series, where its gets a little too over-dramatic, to the point of almost being ridiculous. This was especially noticeable during what is now referred to as the "Boulder Arc," which encompasses roughly episodes 10-12. These moments are few and far between however, and are immediately drowned out once the hype builds back up again.

On the character front, for the sake of not getting your hopes up about the prospects of certain characters living, I'll talk only about the three main characters I mentioned earlier, with the knowledge that the rest of the cast, while incredibly massive in scale, still serves as a stellar group of vibrant personalities and ideals to create a surprisingly organic social environment. As for the big three, we'll start with Armin, who takes on the "smart one/strategist" archetype. While he is fairly generic and standard at the beginning of the series, we get to see him grow into being a more varied character at a constantly shifting rate, and his skills at strategy both on the battlefield and in complex conversations are practically unmatched, often allowing him the power to save the other two from the situations they get themselves into.

Next is Mikasa, who, for the majority of the series, is portrayed as being essentially flawless, taking on the role of the unstoppable badass Titan slayer fresh out of training who also makes time to coddle her adoptive brother, and this flawlessness is built up to the point of it almost being a flaw in itself. There are, however, a few quirks to her personality that make her feel more human, but at the same time make her seem even more distant. Her only notable "flaw" seems to be her undying loyalty and devotion to Eren, often throwing caution to the wind and bolting out against orders in order to make sure he's safe. This also leads to some rather disquieting moments where her own sanity seems to abandon her and, to put it lightly, causes her to act excessively hostile towards anyone who means ill will towards Eren.

Finally, we have Eren, our stereotypical "perseverance" character whose sole motivation for the majority of the season is taking revenge on the Titans, and while this does seem like a bit of a gaping flaw for the show's main character, it's actually both understandable and sort of refreshing. His intense focus on his own rage and desires for revenge slowly consumes part of who he is, which becomes especially present at several points throughout the series that I can't go further into detail on due to massive amounts of spoilers.

The animation was produced by Wit Studios, a new studio that serves as a surrogate of Production I.G. Regardless of its heritage, for a new studio to create such a massively impressive project is beyond incredible. Not only is the animation well-polished, but it also carries its own distinctive style, most notably in the fact that its characters are heavily outlined in varying thicknesses of black to make them pop out from the background. Speaking of backgrounds, the environments are shown to be incredibly rich and detailed despite how unvaried they may appear on the surface, and the action shots give us plenty of different perspectives on this environment. As for the action itself, Wit Studios has no qualms at all with handing out incredible fight sequences by the barrel-full via an in-world tool used by humanity's military known as 3D Maneuver Gear, allowing us to break away from standard ground combat and enter the world of high-flying intensity, with soldiers bolting off of every building in sight, into the air above them, and landing blade-first on the neck of a Titan. On course, all of these brilliant combinations of animation are to be expected from Araki, who has already brought us both the intensely stylized atmosphere of Death Note and the blood-pumping action of Guilty Crown.

The dub was produced by FUNimation, and, as someone who watched the subbed version first, I have no problems whatsoever recommending this dub. From heavy-hitting new favorites like Josh Grelle and Matthew Mercer to classic icons like Vic Mignogna and Caitlin Glass, Funimation has pulled out all the stop to create one of the best dubs this side of 2010. Grelle shuffles between nervously unstable and frantically stern for his portrayal as Armin, and Trina Nishimura pulls off both Mikasa's warmth and ferocity to near perfection. My only notable flaw with the dub is Bryce Papenbrook as Eren. To be fair, this is definitely Papenbrook's best performance yet, due in no small part to Mike McFarland's exceptional voice directing, but he does still tend to get a bit "Bryce-y" at some points and lets his excessively angsty style boil over, which is a rather dangerous idea considering Eren's character. Overall though, this is a minor blemish on an otherwise excellent dub.

The music was composed by Hiroyuki Sawano (Aldnoah.Zero, Kill la Kill), and this soundtrack is definitely one of the best to come out of anime in a long time, based in heavy orchestrations and laced throughout with electronica and hard rock. From the bombastic explosions of "E.M.A" and main theme "Attack on Titan" to the insert tracks of "The Reluctant Heroes" and "Doa," this soundtrack dabbles in the art of perfection on all fronts. If it seems like I'm being much more in-depth with the soundtrack than usual, it's because I've actually purchased the soundtrack on iTunes and have been listening to it practically non-stop, and I highly recommend making this purchase as well. Both opening themes, "Guren no Yumiya" and "Jiyuu no Tsubasa," were performed by Linked Horizon and give us massive eruptions of heavy rock combined with brass and vocal choirs (and on a quick aside, I'm one of the few people that actually preferred the second theme more than the first, though the first still kicks all sorts of ass). The first ending theme "Utsukushiki Zankoku na Sekai" by Yoko Hikasa gives us a rolling ballad to play us out of each episode, while the second ending theme "great escape" by Cinema Staff blasts through with a heavy rock track. Additionally, all of these tracks except "great escape" are available for purchase on iTunes, purchases that I also highly recommend.

Overall, Attack on Titan is simply an incredible experience, combining high-flying action that could even make ufotable nervous with a dark and nearly-overwhelming sense of fear and desperation, and this anime is more than deserving of the hype that it receives. However, as it stands right now, on November 4, 2014, the series is incomplete, and there has been no announcement of a second season yet. I highly doubt that this second season will never come however, and it has been reported that the original manga is planned to be finished in about four years’ time (which actually isn't that much material for a monthly manga). In the meantime, there will be plenty of specials and spin-offs to keep us satiated until season 2 is officially announced.

Attack on Titan is currently licensed by FUNimation and is available from them for both streaming and purchase.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice767Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
769Show lessOpenGift

Nov 29, 2013
Wandering-Otaku
Mixed Feelings
Attack on Titan is a particularly unique case for me. As such, my review needs to be broken up to properly analyze it.

Story:

Attack on Titan has an absolutely astounding setting. The sheer idea behind the setting, the exposition pieces, and the initial plot elements held the potential for it to be one of the best action anime ever. From the first three episodes, I could see how someone could believe this would be that one anime that is just absolutely amazing. It simply becomes disappointing as things continue. Long story short? The start is absolutely amazing. It's powerful. It's grabbing. It does everything an introduction should do. The problem after that stems from the plot slowly becoming painfully predictable and a personal dissatisfaction with the protagonists in place as well as the decisions of various members of the cast completely destroying the story's credibility at times.

Art:

Art is completely subjective. I would not actually judge art based on someone's own opinion. You would really have to see it for yourself to deem whether it is "good" or not. As for me, it seemed fairly mediocre. The effort is there, but something with the art style simply does not jive with me. The settings are well done, but the characters are quite bland.

Sound:

Finally. This is what I can praise Attack on Titan for. If anything, this series's soundtrack deserves to be remembered. It is excellent and its execution throughout the anime was not only strategic but tasteful. The tracks range from dark and depressing to powerful and moving pieces designed for a battle against a completely hopeless situation. In my opinion, the music in and of itself is the true beauty behind this anime.

Characters:

The main protagonist Eren Jeager is heavily set on his goal to a fault. Some call this good writing, but given the setting, it actually works against the story and its credibility. It is literally almost difficult to not find the main character's obsession with revenge nostalgic and downright hilarious. If you don't like avenger-type characters, you will despise Eren beyond imagination by the time the story is over. The worst part? He finally starts developing three-quarters through and goes right back to the bratty child he was in the first few eps. The same can be said of Mikasa. This anime is one of the few to portray women with some form of decency, but Mikasa's obsession with Eren is a pretty sad window of how the author wants people to worship his poorly-designed protagonist. To boot, Mikasa literally has no flaws other than her obsession with Eren. No character flaws. No ability flaws. Her only real flaw is her obsession with Eren, which usually only winds up helping them, not causing them problems like it should. Your only real likable protagonist? Armin. He is one of maybe three characters we really see that has a solid character, solid flaws, and solid development based on those flaws and his interactions with other characters due to the plot. In all honesty, Armin should have been the main protagonist.

Enjoyment:

Now we move onto enjoyment. Despite vehemently despising roughly eighty-five percent of the cast, I enjoyed Attack on Titan. Is it a great action anime? Sure. Definitely! Is it realistic? Sad to say, but no it is not. Is it the most well-written anime ever? Astronomically far from it. If you're looking for an action anime to sit down and enjoy, this is a wonderful choice. If you're looking for an action anime with a strong plot and emphasis on lovable characters, I recommend pretending that you never heard the hype and staying far away from this anime.

With a heavy heart, I cannot give the anime anything higher than a 5/10 in good conscience. It had oodles of potential, but an irritating cast, some half-baked plot elements, and predictability ruined it. Mediocre at best.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice339Love it Love it0Funny Funny2Show all
347Show lessOpenGift

Nov 13, 2013
Xiaraith
Mixed Feelings
So what on earth? What have I done?
How am I not able to feel the stun?...
I will write about "Attack on Titan" here;
but yeah, I'm no fanboy trying to endear
myself to mainstream now or in the longer run.

I turned towards this show unbiased
considering its popularity at highest.
I wanted to see if this action show at least
conveys more meanings than being a bloody feast.
But in the end: people and story at its driest.

So hundreds of years ago, the humankind
is letting itself be completely confined
by dim-witted looking titans there
inside a 50-meter wall ensnare
and is now searching for ways to get behind.

Then suddenly, a 60-meter giant attacks
and many more titans are making their tracks.
The wall can't hold it anymore
and so the humans are fighting another war.
Their enemies won't give them more time to relax!

The first few episodes are quite intense,
experiencing human's crumbling defence,
getting their normal lives torn up again,
having to survive in a diminishing den,
and nearly losing their last kind of sense.

We follow Eren, who has to sustain
his mother's loss, indeed a great pain.
He wants to kick some titan's ass
and finally falls into the shounen mass,
always acting like tightened by an angry chain.

Accompanied by one of the few
more normal humans, Mikasa, whose true
intention is to save her Eren
and so she's getting ears more barren
despite her strength she would rather sue.

The third in league, weak fair-haired Armin, stays
the cowardly one with a frightened face.
He tends to think far more than others
but is mostly hindering his brothers.
He needs lots of time to realise his place.

So maybe you would think that some other
guys inside these walls don't try to bother,
but instead act more heroic inside this hell.
You see, Commander Levi's the only one memorable;
he wouldn't even trade his tenacity for his mother.

All in all, these characters just won't try
to develop properly and we ask why?
Why haven't they used episodes five to twelve
to let them build some features or delve
into their motivations or what they go by?

Seriously, you won't remember any other names.
They die like flies and only the main remains.
So I really wondered the whole time where
the more seasoned soldiers would deign to dare
to get into the fight, but you know what it claims...

And then, the probably most important thing:
What are the titans? Ruled by a king?
What are their bloody true intentions?
Hinder humanity from some kind of interventions?
We aren't informed, and that's a serious sting.

However, the style and art does kind of save all it
from falling into a much more deeper pit.
Detailed architecture and nice quality,
although the animations strive for equality,
but the art got me astounded, I must admit!

What you will hear is mostly amazing.
The music improves the already fast pacing
but cannot reach my most favourite sides
like Code Geass with "Stories" provides.
So it's epic, and rather the common saving.

Special mention for an awesome opening theme
mixing German and Japanese for deserved esteem.
It conveys this rather intimidating mood,
lets us taste of the upcoming action food.
Believing the whole show's that epic: it stays a dream.

Now summarizing art and sound: they're nice;
but paying with a decent story at least twice.
Man, there are so many episodes for fill,
the pacing is off, the direction needs skill,
inferring that eight episodes clearly would suffice.

Some people will ask how I can say
this show is average and carried away...
It has nothing like a memorable plot
and tends to dramatize quite a lot,
just not worth for every fan to stay!

I can't deny the certain amount of joy
the first few episodes deliver, oh boy!
But after that, it's nothing new...
No inspirations I aim to pursue...
Its part to perplex hardly evens the one to annoy.

So this practically concludes my review.
"Do not believe the hype" became so true!
If you like some standard action shows,
then Attack on Titan doesn't have much to oppose,
but otherwise it isn't worth any ballyhoo.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice259Love it Love it1Funny Funny4Show all
278Show lessOpenGift

Jul 21, 2014
abrodkin
Recommended
I started watching Shingeki no Kyojin a year ago, almost to the day that I am writing this. So I figured I would write a review on what has grown to be one of my favourite series of all time.

What I've noticed is that people tend to be very split about this anime; you either love it, or you hate it. Clearly, in my case, I love this entire series (the show, the manga, the side-stories, etc.) Now onto the actual review.

Story: 9
At its core, Shingeki no Kyojin is something that we have seen many times in the past: humanity is being attacked, therefore we must defend ourselves. Many, many iconic shows start from this format. However, SNK (as I will be calling it for the rest of the review) takes this simple plot point and expands it into something very, very unique. We have the Titans: giant, humanoid creatures set on devouring humans. Because of the Titans, humanity has been driven behind three walls, with the population dwindling to less than 1% of our current population.

Each and every single plot point in this series is completely thought out and executed stunningly. There are so many twists that you won't be able to see coming. Hell, check out episode 8- you'll be shocked. Even the filler is thought out, and has important significance to the main story. The story of SNK goes even further in the manga. At the time of writing this review, there has been 59 chapters released, and we are just only starting to scratch the surface of this world.

Like most things out there, SNK does have its flaws. But the flaws are so minuscule that it's very, very hard to notice them. The brilliant storytelling of this series completely blew me away from episode 1, which is why it deserves a near perfect score.

Art: 9
If you have read the SNK manga, you'll know that the art, while it is good, isn't amazing. The anime cleaned up all of the character designs, leaving us with a beautiful result. While there were some minor changes in characters (ex Eren's eye colour, Levi's physique, etc,) the anime designs did stay pretty true to the original material. The designs match the characters' personalities completely, which is something that not a lot of shows can brag about.

And the animation is breathtaking. Every single sky we see, the birds eye views; the scenery in this anime is absolutely stunning. And the animation for the characters and their situations is pretty great, too. To me, this is digital animation to the finest degree. But again, as is the case with most shows, SNK does have some animation flaws. For example, in one episode, the same frame is shown about three times. The characters can also have a case of "far away face", but that is pretty common. Again, these flaws in animation are pretty small, and are barely noticeable when you are watching the show. They do not take away from the rest of the show.

Sound: 10
The score for SNK was done by Hiroyuki Sawano. If you don't recognize his name, he also composed the score for things like Kill la Kill, Ao no Exorcist, and more recently Aldnoah.Zero. If I could use any one word to describe the sound of SNK, it would be flawless. The score matches every scene perfectly, mixing electronics with more orchestral pieces. If you don't have any interest in watching the show, I would still suggest you download the OSTs. The sound for this show blew me away. Even the background noises, the additional sound FX- they were all done to the utmost perfection.

The openings and endings for SNK were all absolutely amazing. It's no wonder that Guren no Yumiya in particular has landed on many "top 10 anime openings" lists. The songs will get stuck in your head, and refuse to leave. In my case, they have not left in a year, and that's something that is very hard to do in my case. Just check out the OPs and EDs online; you'll be amazed at how great they are.

And the voice acting is nothing to laugh at, either. With many shows that I've seen, I've noticed that the voices don't match with the characters. Either the voice is too weak, too bold, meek, etc- this is not the case with SNK. Each character is voiced perfectly; each voice matches the personality of the character. The passion put into the voice acting of the show is nothing to laugh at. The voice actors were able to portray each and every line and emotion perfectly, which is something very hard to do. The dub is a different story (but we don't talk about the dub....)

Character: 9
This is where most people decided whether they love or hate this show. To be fair, the characters in SNK can sometimes seem a little extreme with their personalities. However, I love them. For example, the main character Eren can seem very angry, very passionate. Some people hate this. They think he's just a trope amped up to the extreme. In my opinion, Eren's character was done perfectly. His "extreme" emotions fit his personality up to a T.

The personalities of each character in this show are fleshed out near perfectly, in my opinion. Again, some aspects can seem extreme, but that is part of the enjoyment of this series. Not one character is deemed as "perfect." They each have their flaws, which makes them seem very human and realistic. As the story goes on, each point in each characters' personality is explained in detail, even if it seems unimportant initially.

Each character in this series serves a purpose. The main characters, the main supporting characters, the regular supporting characters- each and every one of them is important. There is a lot of death in this show, but every single death we see is important to the story and the character development. And while some deaths may seem insignificant, they really aren't. The entire emotional journey of this series stems from the characters, and SNK has pretty powerful ones.

Enjoyment: 10
I'm not a fan of blood and gore. Really, I'm not. There have been several shows, live-action or animated, that I have had to drop because of their content. When a show like SNK, which has copious amounts of both blood and gore, can become one of my favourites, you know that it is amazing.

Every single episode of SNK had me captivated. Even the filler ones. Each and every episode was an emotional journey from start to finish. Waiting for the episodes to air every week was torture, because I so desperately wanted to see everything happen (even if I had already read the manga.) I loved every single episode, even the OVAs that have been released. Each release had me on edge, with both the show and the manga. Nothing was dull; everything was riveting.

Overall: 9
There is a reason why this show doesn't score perfect. It has its flaws, as everything does. But there is also a reason why it scores so high.

Shingeki no Kyojin was one of the most popular, if not the MOST popular anime of 2013. There is a reason for this. There is a reason why so many people watch, read, and enjoy this series, even if they're not into anime or manga. There is a reason why there are copious amounts of fan works for this series. There is a reason why so much merchandise has been released. There is a reason why so many people cosplay characters from this series.

Like it or hate it, you really can't deny how popular it is. I personally love everything about it. Keep in mind that this is only my opinion; other people will tell you different things. But to me, Shingeki no Kyojin is stunning.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice280Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
281Show lessOpenGift

Dec 25, 2014
Shrabster
Not RecommendedFunnyFunny
There’s a current trend that favors dark and edgy stories such as Game of Thrones, The Walking Dead, and so on. Anime, being no different, saw the much anticipated release of Attack on Titan which is based on the manga of the same name. Given the astronomical amount of hype behind the series it certainly had a lot to live up to. That said, the hype was understandable as Attack on Titan seemed to have everything going for it, being produced by Production I.G., having top notch production values, and a promising premise.

Attack on Titan follows the story of Eren and the Survey Corps as they fight for survival in a world where monstrous beings known as titans terrorize humanity.

I was very intrigued by the premise of Attack on Titan. It’s definitely something that stands out and is at least somewhat unique in a sea of all too similar anime. That’s sadly where my praise ends for the series. Unfortunately the execution does not live up to the premise and it's not long before the show turns into glorified torture porn.

The majority of the characters are bland and pretty cookie cutter. This is a huge problem in a series where death and survival are the main aspects, and a character’s death has no impact unless the viewer is attached to them. Without spoiling too much there are one or more important characters that are introduced and die within the span of a single episode. The scenes are supposed to be impactful, yet these characters are barely shown in the one episode they are in creating little emotional payoff.

Eren has one emotion- anger, and only one way of expressing himself- yelling. Combined with his naive and arrogant attitude and inability to back much of it up, Eren can be a very annoying character. He never really learns from his mistakes nor do other characters react appropriately to it to any meaningful degree. Something that also shatters the illusion of suspense in the series is Eren's ability to shounen his way out of death avarious other situations because writing is hard to do.

Mikasa is Eren’s sister and plays the part of the cool heroine of few words. She succeeds at everything she does but her biggest accomplishment is being cute despite her manly abs. One could argue her weird and unhealthy obsession with her brother Eren is a flaw, but like most things out of Japan I just assume it's the creator's fetish. I guess it's okay though since she does look good in those tight pants.

The rest of the main cast consists of various other trainees and the Survey Corps. They aren’t really memorable and I couldn’t name more than a handful of them even if my life depended on it. There’s Armin, he’s not so good at fighting but he’s smart or so I'm told. There’s Levi, he’s kind of like Eren's mentor and a male version of Mikasa except for the part about wanting to bang Eren. Well, unless the shipping community has anything to say about it.

There are a few characters that I felt were somewhat more interesting. Sasha probably has the best characterization out of all the characters, or maybe I just like her potatoes. There is also Hange who has an obsession with studying the titans who also adds much needed personality to series. I think they provide the right amount of levity for the series. The other humor in the show doesn't work as well. It's a bit silly and contrived and interferes with the otherwise grim atmosphere and just makes things feel tonally inconsistent. Most stories do benefit from some type of levity and contrast, but it should be appropriate to tone and not take the viewer out of the story. A good example would be Paranoia Agent, there is an episode dedicated to three people trying to commit suicide that is quite humorous but stays in tune with the show's dark tone while also making for interesting social commentary on Japan's high suicide rate in real life, playing into the overarching themes of the series. It is natural and fits the show with its dry humor, in comparison Attack on Titan literally pulls you out of an serious scene for a cheap laugh, like Armin and Reiner gawking at a pretty blonde girl while they are running for their lives.

There are some other problems, such as pacing issues where the series just grinds to a screeching halt and drags on for a fair bit. A lot of other parts of the story dip into shounen levels of silliness and predictability. I’m still not entirely sure how the transformation aspect of the show works either, besides something about biting your thumb while you have some kind of goal in mind or something very ill thought out. I suppose these are things that aren’t meant to be looked into too deeply. The dialogue is also bad with the characters having to explain every little thing they do or have an internal monologue every five seconds for exposition's sake.

The production values of this show are good. The art and animation are nice and fluid, with the art style itself being very distinctive. The characters have an unusually thick border that outlines that's kind of unique. Character design is pretty good for what the show is trying to do, being more grounded and what not. The technology is pretty neat looking as well, from the 3D maneuver gear to the box cutter swords. The music doesn't thrill me as much as most but has some noteworthy pieces. It’s all fittingly high energy and I don’t have a problem with it.

By now it’s no secret that both the anime and manga versions of Attack on Titan are sweeping successes. Nearly everyone remotely interested in media has watched or has heard of it, including people that weren’t particularly big on anime to begin with. While its success with the mainstream market is commendable I can’t help but feel disappointed with the actual content. I can see Attack on Titan riding the hype wave with the support of the casual market for as long as it can. It doesn’t help that the creator is prostituting the series with several spinoffs, a live action movie, and even going as far as to change the original ending to pander to fans. It’s a shame really, I had high hopes for Attack on Titan but a few big missteps crushed those. Regrettably Attack on Titan will be a story of what could have been instead of what was.
Reviewer’s Rating: 3
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice161Love it Love it6Funny Funny135Show all
435Show lessOpenGift

Oct 7, 2014
Micsupreeme
Recommended
Let's get straight to it! Shingeki no Kyojin is an incredibly gripping, action packed show, and it is certainly capable of converting non-anime watchers. When you begin to understand the plight of humanity versus the titans, you'll quickly begin to realize that this is a show of epic proportions - essentially it is an inter species war: and violence comes hand in hand with this theme, so squeamish viewers might want to look elsewhere.

The show is incredibly engaging, and intense because the combat animations are executed perfectly, giving a really personal front row seat throughout. Not only this but peril is constantly a reinforced aspect of the anime, and what's scarier is the accurate scale of death that isn't afraid to engulf those that the viewer has become connected to.

I'm liking this logical order, because with death brings me to the next area i'd like to explain: Drama! Oh boy you'll be astounded by the dramatic, emotional and often angry outbursts of the characters. I personally would rank Shingeki no Kyojin highly in all of its presentation methods.

But that's not all, because in addition to being well presented, violent and dramatic, the show still then has the drive to steer you into corners via breakthroughs in the story. Another beautiful aspect of the show is that although the context would say that humanity had been surviving for over a century, the titans are still a great mystery to the present characters, therefore putting you (the viewer) on the front line for discovering more!

Despite how i'm in awe with so many parts of the anime, the story if i'm honest is a bit too linear, as in i don't think enough goes on behind the scenes of titan combat. The plot summary introductions are also a pain due to their repetitiveness, it really is easy to pick up the story line behind the show, yet to an extent where it almost feels like it's been dumbed down.

Nevertheless, i agree with the masses, this popular anime lives up to its reputation, and you really must see for yourself!
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice195Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
196Show lessOpenGift

Mar 22, 2015
Nikolekoleta
Recommended
This anime made my mouth open wide for longer than 5 seconds more than a handful times. This is the type of world where more people get killed than the entirety of the A Song of Ice and Fire series. It exists in a timeless universe – not in the past, present or future of our world, but in a pocket universe where Titans existed long before the existence of machines. In this world, machines were not invented to improve humanity’s lifestyle, but for the continuous existence of humanity itself.

There’s lots of shouting (especially from Eren), lots of action, lots of character development, and lots of tears. My friends weren’t kidding. I felt like my ear drums would break from all the intense shouting. I think my mind is forever scarred, what with how everyone got crushed like ants all the time. And my heart has become immune to all other fictional deaths, what with all the deaths I’ve experienced just from this show alone.

It teaches you a lot about what it takes to be a soldier, a survivor. Constantly, people have to be reminded to “FIGHT!” Some lines are repeated all over the anime that it kind of becomes engraved into your head and heart once you’re done with it.

It’s the kind of anime that sticks with you, the kind that leaves you with phantom faces with phantom voices following you around, making you feel as if you’re still living in that universe, even after you’ve told yourself that you’re done with it.

The concept of the villain, and of the world itself, is scary and genius. First off, the villain – the Titan – is basically a stupid giant human cannibal.

Unlike other villains, it doesn’t want revenge. It doesn’t want world domination. It doesn’t want power. It doesn’t need to eat. It has lived a hundred years without eating humans. But it is all it ever eats. It doesn’t eat animals. It wants only one thing – and this is just a theory, but it’s one that I can side with, and one that I love the most – to annihilate the existence of humanity.

Second, the fact that it looks human. It is, in every aspect, a human being, except for the fact that it doesn’t have two things; sexual organs, and a conscience. Countless times, characters had their feet rooted to the ground, unable to fight, and I think it’s because the image of a gigantic human biting off a human’s neck is just too fascinatingly cruel that they feel they cannot look away.

The world itself is scarier than the world of the Hunger Games. And I think what makes it scary is the fact that humanity has never won against the Titans, ever. For the past who-knows-how-many-years, Titans have been eating humans.

The humans in this world pretend that they have a system.

o matter what plan the humans think of, no matter how determined every single one of their skilled soldiers are, they will still be crushed in less than a second without remorse, without even a body to prove that you have existed. This is their anarchy, their ‘chaos’.

Every single man, woman and child in this world lived with losing a loved one as a social norm. It’s a dark fact I’d like everyone to consider. Everyone is already dead, in everyone else’s eyes. That’s what’s sad about this whole thing – even the humans think of other humans as just tiny insects with no importance. But it’s also beautiful, because sometimes, sometimes a character sees through that corrupted notion and calls everyone else out on it, making us realize it along the way too.

So you have a dark world, and an even darker society. Combine that with real-life everyday problems like corruption in the system, hierarchy in social status, differences in privileges and human rights and what do you get? Awesome badass characters who naiively try to fight against it.

The differences in character personality is great, too. There are a few who are extremely righteous, but most of them just really don’t care. They feign an act of indifference, but all for different reasons. But the fact that they had grieved over the death of a loved one united them.

And I think that’s brilliant. These clashes of personality, and this unity for one tragedy, has bonded them together, and changed them greatly. You get to see how much they have grown in a span of 5-7 years. That’s something I don’t usually see in anime.

You also get to witness the amazing 3D Maneuver Gear.

This made the whole world look kind of sci-fi, but also, kind of not. The 3D Maneuver Gears are as close as we can get to a ‘high tech’ fictional gadget in this world. Every other man made thing you see in the anime is pretty mundane. But the function of it makes the people actually fly. It’s a pretty brilliant concept, and I like how something as complicated as that is a seemingly-ordinary thing for them. Plus, it makes the animation really cool to watch. You gotta respect the amount of effort (and physics, I bet) put just to make sure each maneuver looks even just a little legit.

The music is amazing, too. There were some points where I gaped like a fish because “wHaT just happened omg” and the music dramatically intensified my feelings. So kudos to that! The animation was splendid, hands down. Especially, like I said, with the whole 3D Maneuver thing.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice178Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
179Show lessOpenGift

Mar 21, 2014
Hatul
Mixed Feelings
It's nice to have an anime this popular that isn't just tsundere school rom-com no' 10746 for a change. But does that alone make said anime great? No, not really.

This is a spoiler free review.

*Story*

*Insert synopsis here*

Aside from the monsters being replaced with Titans and the interesting weaponry the people have, we've definitely seen similar stories in anime before, whether it's Claymore, Blue Gender and maybe even Highschool of the Dead.

Leaving that aside though, it doesn't do a very good job with its narrative. The story relies on coincidences, has forced exposition, uneventful pacing and it also has unexplored themes that are tossed away as soon as they're raised.

The setting in general is poorly explored. For example, they make it clear that there's a slave trade going on within these walls, but that issue is never raised again. Apparently they also have religious sects that worship these walls as deities or something, but that's never explored either, aside from killing them off in an ironic and disrespectful manner (hah! that'll teach those religious people for having faith and hope!). There are even social classes among citizens, and of course, the higher the class, the more evil you are (that's how it works in cliché land), but even that is just there to show us what good people the main characters are by comparison.. They also present corruption within the military and competition amongst its different branches. Granted, the latter is explored a little, but the former is hardly touched and is just there to shock you. So despite how rich the setting seems at first, at the end of the day all you will care for is the fight against the titans since the rest just remains background decoration.

It's a common thing to say that the first episode is Amazing, but I wasn't impressed. To me, the first episode is also the first mistake it made. It seemed deliberately rushed in an attempt to make the audience gasp at the sudden deaths of characters we know nothing about (pure shock effect).

This is the first mistake because the pacing does slow down significantly later on and I think the first episode was the only one worthy of getting fleshed out more, instead of diving in to the massacre straight away. The rest of the episodes don't even exploit most of their slow pacing very well. It has a habit of slowing down deliberately in order to end most episodes on a cliffhanger. Sure, it might raise the tension, but it also serves to make the series less eventful inside its already limited number of episodes (which means less of a story).

And maybe I'm just nitpicking here, but the exposition insults me. It assumes I'm a retard who can't put 2 and 2 together and the characters have to go out of their way to explain things about their world that they should already know just by being born there. This show could've had no dialogue whatsoever and I still could've picked up on a great deal of what's going on. So the script just comes off as amaturish.

And like I said, the story also relies on occurrences that are not very likely, but because it involves the main characters, anything is possible. It's nothing that bad or distracting, but I'm still gonna go on a limb here and say; that's not good storytelling.

Lastly, it just ends in the middle of nowhere and leaves you with nothing but another cliffhanger (surprise, surprise).

To be fair though, the setting is still pretty creative (as unexplored as it is) and it does do a decent job in foreshadowing some interesting plot twists and gradually revealing mysteries, mainly about the Titans. But that's pretty much it and even that is incomplete for now.

*Characters*

These are tired shonen characters who are completely out of place.
You have a Mary Sue who's super strong for no good reason, the smart one and mr angry pants.

Granted, Eren, the angry one has good reasons to be angry, it's completely understandable. Unfortunately, that's pretty much all he is and it's probably not the best idea to have him as a main character since it gets old really fast.

You also have Mikasa who's an absolute perfect being for some reason (I gave up on questioning it). We can't make her flawed of course since that'd mean she'll have room for character depth, we can't have that. And there's simply nothing to remember her for besides her relationship with Eren, being perfect and her sexy lips. So yeah, a lame character with no development and the most ludicrous backstory I've seen in a while, which also happens to be Eren's backstory. Which explains why she's his pet.
Nice..

The third character is Armin, the weak but smart one. I guess he's ok, since he does seem to grow more than the other two.. Aside from that he's forgettable as well since this show's characterization in general is very shonenish and obnoxious in an otherwise dark setting. "The power of friendship!" (ok, they don't actually say that, but they come pretty close).

By the way, these 3 characters are each supposed to complete each other with their traits, which is a nice idea, but that fact is stated directly to the viewer, much like everything else in this series (so much for subtlety).

There's also another notable character named Jean, who's kinda like the Vegeta or the rival in a shonen series. And much like Vegeta, he's the only one who goes through actual growth and he even reacts to the events in a way that resembles a human being. Too bad he wasn't the main character, he suits the grim setting much better than the others.

The secondary characters are defined mainly by their quirks or their looks and there are others who are just evil for the sake of being hated by the audience and aren't shown more than once. Many secondary characters aren't fleshed out and the vast majority of deaths in this series are of nameless characters or ones you don't remember. It's understandable considering the circumstances, but that just makes the main cast appear more plot armored than they already are.

On the other hand, the characterization of common people during the intense moments is pretty decent. Probably a little over the top at times, but I still think it was handled rather well with how they panic and such.

Overall the characters could've been worse, I mean at least they have character consistency, they are given some focus and I should probably applaud them for not being overly sexualized, which is a very rare thing in anime these days. But I have no clue what people see in them since most of them are pretty simple and feel ridiculously out of place.

*Art & Sound*

I'll cover this part more briefly.

The character designs are kind of unique, I guess. I actually like the thick outlines the artwork has, you really don't see those much anymore. The surroundings look beautiful, both the forests and the towns. Everything just seems gigantic. The animation itself (while not always consistent) is great and the battles with the 3d camera movement is one of the most amazing things I've ever seen. Though I wasn't too thrilled about most of the Titan designs, and some are significantly cooler than others.

The opening song is arguably one of the best openings in recent years, it's just masterful (too bad opening 2 happened midway). Same goes for the soundtrack in general which is beautifully intense and makes everything seem more epic. The voice acting is nothing special and maybe even over the top, but I realize that the script probably told them to scream a lot, which is not always easy to pull off so give them some slack.


*Enjoyment*

I enjoyed some of it, but from a point on I mainly just watched it apathetically. I do concede that it's not a boring watch, that's for sure.

*Overall* 6/10

I've been mostly negative in this review, but to be fair it was still a fine show, or at least passable in some respects and the production values are great. But I doubt it will stand the test of time
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice169Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
172Show lessOpenGift

Oct 28, 2014
Jarrbearr
Recommended
The hype of 2013 leading to an ending that closed off lots of action and questions throughout its run. With an anime that has a lot of hype, comes a lot of conflict between haters and people who genuine enjoy the anime. Shingeki no Kyojin is an anime that made peaks in sales and getting fans world wide, but is it really worth watching?

The concept of humanity being at the brink of extinction, this is one emphasizes it's fight for survival and the ups and downs of their fight for victory. With the first episode starting off with a great clincher to get you excited for the rest of series, you get a little view of how each character is and their view point towards the situation.

Due to the story of humans being driven to extinction, you often get an anime that can be a hit or a miss depending on how they unravel it throughout the series. Humans are declining with titans appearing onto earth and they eventually make a wall tall enough to the point where even the tallest titan can't break through.

With the show being a fight for survival, it does an excellent job actually dragging out the battle to its actual length. With anime these days battle scenes are usually only an episode with the exception of it being mostly dialog. Attack on Titan has arcs of each fight against the titans or progress in the story. You're given arcs that focus on a battle to take back a city, an expedition outside the walls, and even a battle taking place inside their safest town.

Throughout the anime you get stories of some characters past and they're definitely something that makes each character enjoyable and much more interesting to watch as the series progresses forward. The characters are mainly focuses on Eren, Mikasa and Armin. They're what drives the story and is the foundation for all the events that happen.

You have the main character Eren, a boy who does before he thinks. This often gets him into a lot of fights and is what drives his friends to do more than they expect they can do. With his mother being eaten in front of him, you get a lot of realism towards his feelings to the situation and an actual reason for his hate rather than the generic hero title.

Second you have Mikasa, a girl who is brave and does anything to protect Eren. They're not related, but they're brother and step-sister, but act just like siblings. They bicker and often get into fights due to different feelings and agreements. She's usually level-headed and very mature, but you'll see when something happens to Eren, she breaks down and becomes very agitated.

Lastly you have Armin, hes the brains of the group and emotional support for both of them. While lacking in physical strength he excels in strategy and decision making. While not being the main focus of the anime, he's probably the character with the most development. At the start hes weak and afraid, but towards the end he becomes mentally strong and definitely a changed person due to the events that occur to him and his friends.

With anime being military themed, you're given characters who are joined in with them due to squads and become their friends. You have characters who disagree with a lot of what they do, and some that are just like them and get along well. The side characters are also important for what happens and really drive the story with their back stories and talent that they bring to the group.

Known for having excellent art, I have nothing to say that can disagree with that. The art through the entire anime stays at top quality and even has detail in every aspect of the show. With all the scenery being changed constantly through the battles, you see buildings that were once standing being ruined and detail in everything. You can see the emotion on all of the characters faces as they witness their comrades being eaten alive.

The scenery seems to be staged in what seems like Europe, you see a lot of forests and old-style buildings. With all the scene changes you can see detail in everything such as trees, buildings and even the clothes that the characters wear. It makes it feel like the Middle Ages or so, with the wool and texture the clothes has.

Thanks to the theme of extiction, you get 2 wonderful openings to hype you for the anime. With the first half being set around emphasizing their survival, you get an opening that has lots of action and despair to give the feeling of struggle the characters are going through. The second half is more towards the counter attack that mankind has and their subtle victories and their path towards winning against the titans. The opening gives that feeling of excitement and shows their steps to becoming closer to surviving and prospering once again. With battles happening constantly and emotion going across the board with characters dying, or even victory, you get excellent background music to support those feelings even more.

Overall this anime is something that lives up to its hype and does a good job having a really serious tone, but also giving off some comedy to balance it out. The story is something that has been done often, but this is one that emphasizes humanities survival. The art is top quality and is the best of the 2013 season to make every battle scene beautiful and movements very clean. The characters were all really well developed and really makes the viewer sad when they die, even though they've only just been introduced a few episodes ago. Anyone who enjoys an action or looking for a great anime to pass time, this is definitely worth checking out.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice169Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
169Show lessOpenGift

Apr 19, 2015
leep11
Recommended
Shingeki no Kyojin is an amazingly written story with a very dark premise and a lot of action. This is definitely not a series for the faint of heart, especially those with fears of man-eating giants that don't even have the decency to kill you before they eat you (sometimes). The story keeps you guessing as it progresses, there's a new reveal that completely destroys what you thought you knew and makes you wonder just how far the rabbit hole goes. The characters are very relatable and you really do want to see them succeed. What makes this series unique however is the protagonists very rarely ever win a battle. Every mission the cast engage in usually ends in a blood bath, but it's not without purpose. The gruesome deaths we witness just cements how high the stakes are in this story, and the determination of the protagonists to push forward is very inspiring.
Another unique thing about the cast is they are rather three-dimensional in comparison to a lot of anime and manga I've seen. Where I expect some characters to be completely flat jerkasses or emotionless bastards, there's always something that really makes you like them. The series also makes a point of establishing that no matter what you see on the outside, the characters certainly feel and act human deep down. This makes it really heart breaking when you see characters you like die in the line of duty, and only makes you want to see the good guys succeed all the more, which serves to make their victories so much sweeter.
tl;dr, This series is a must-read/watch. If you have a weak stomach or a phobia for cannibalistic slasher smiles, give it a miss. Otherwise, give it your full attention.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice165Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
166Show lessOpenGift

Oct 27, 2014
Sorrow
Recommended
If you’re an anime or manga patron, you’ve more than likely heard of, if you haven’t already read or seen, a series entitled Shingeki no Kyojin (Attack on Titan). Based on the popular manga, Shingeki no Kyojin had been made into an anime in 2013, that had literally taken the entire world by storm. It's even been airing on American Television alongside other popular shows such as One Piece and Naruto. It’s popularity is getting to the point where it’s damn near impossible to say the word “anime” without someone bringing up Shingeki no Kyojin. But is Shingeki no Kyojin worth the hype?

Plot: One-hundred years prior to the start of the series, mankind was plagued by their predators, The Titans, gigantic humanoid creatures whose only purpose in existence is to devour humans, despite having no apparent need to eat in order to survive. Humanity was driven to the brink of extinction. The few surviving humans built a society behind 50-meter walls that kept the Titans out. The walls were named Maria, the outermost wall, Rose, the middle, and Sina, the interior. There, humanity enjoyed a century of peace... Until... Our main characters, teenage boy Eren Yeager and his foster sister Mikasa Ackerman witness something horrific... The city's "divine" walls are destroyed by a colossal titan that appears out of thin air. As the smaller titans flood the city, the two kids watch in horror as their mother along with thousands of other humans are eaten alive. Eren vows to murder every single titan and take revenge for all of mankind. And so, mankind finds their secret weapon in defeating the Titans...

First thing you may be wondering, is this anime as epic as everyone says it is, and is it filled with amazing action scenes? Well eh, I guess you could say that it's a tiny bit, not too much, but just a teeny bit ... IT'S DEFINITELY EPIC. This anime's introduction of the 3D maneuver gear was certainly an creative pleasant to the say the least, surprise. The way the characters jump/literally fly from rooftop to rooftop, swinging their dual swords at Titans, screaming their lungs at every second leaves the viewers mouths opened, and their eyes glued onto the screen. May I add that the soundtrack in this anime is arguably the best set of music in an anime ever. It's epic music certainly adds to the suspense of every single episode in Shingeki no Kyojin. The only thing I'd say took away from the EPICness in Shingeki, was that there was awfully too many dialogue scenes... Although some were pretty nerve-wrecking, others seemed to be useless and pointless.

Secondly... is this plot depressing? Yup. Are there multiple scenes that have brought me to tears? Yup. Have I witnessed characters I love meet their end in horribly gruesome ways? Yup. This is not an anime for the faint-hearted. Shingeki no Kyojin will ruthlessly rip your heart out, throw it into a grinder, then turn it into processed dog food time after time after time ... after time again. This anime is also quite gory, so if you can't stand that, I'd... still recommend you to give Shingeki no Kyojin a try.

As for me, what I had wondered the most were, is this plot deep (theme)? efficiently written? And enjoyable to watch? Is there an explanation for everything that happens or is it one of those anime that something happens for no reason or leaves me going What happened to the _____ or how did he/she even know _____.
The storyline itself has no contradictions, is full to the brim with plot twists that are almost impossible to predict. And most importantly, it is VERY enjoyable to watch.

(Skip if you don't care about historical information + deep themes) Well I will say that the plot has a deep theme. The circle of life and escaping every-day routine and achieving freedom (humans trapped within walls, never seeing the ocean, mountains, volcanoes, forests, plains, and never having an adventure until...) concept is included in the plot. What was also quite intriguing that you probably didn't know was in Shingeki no Kyojin was the use of Norse Allusions. Narrative tales for centuries have, for centuries, been borrowing and re-constructing myths from previous generations in order to create new tales to amuse and inspire. Mythology has been incorporated into many stories to provide emphasis on major themes and create a more complex universe for the reader to experience. “Shingeki no Kyojin” written by Hajime Isayama draws extensive inspiration Nordic myth such as Snorri’s “Gylfaginning” and “Prose Edda,” creating integral elements and parallels within the story by incorporating fundamental Norse ideologies into the fictional universe’s framework. It is these elements of inter-textuality that create a context in which hermetic moments can be experienced, while expressing creativity through the literary tradition of interpretation through connotation. As for the circle of life, humans for once are on the side of the preys. Why is it wrong for titans to eat us, while it's okay for us to (raise and) kill animals in order to eat them? In this world, the strong are the predators, and the weak are the preys. The strong steal all and win all, the weak get stolen from and lose all. That's just how this rotten world (in reality) works. The anime delves into the "strength" of humans vs the titans. Escaping everyday routine has been a theme in many famous stories, such as "The Dubliners" (read it, very famous). How can a person live when doing the same thing over... and over... and over everyday. How would you feel if you were confined within a small amount of space and never allowed to go outside of that tiny space because you would get eaten mercilessly by a predator out there?

The art and sound in the anime is absolutely spectacular. The soundtrack of Shingeki no Kyojin, composed by Hiruko Sawano is (insert the greatest positive word you can think of). The openings were absolutely incredible as well, and I'm sure that everyone, whether or not you've seen the anime has heard of and fairly enjoyed/absolutely loved the opening, "Guren Yumiya". I believe it's the most famous anime song ever. The art is fairly nicely drawn up, and the drawn up 3D maneuver gear certainly was well made. I must say in terms of visuals, the titans were drawn up to perfection! Their faces are disgustingly disfigured and what is up their skin/teeth! They look creepy as fuck, which is great! As for the characters, each person was fairly well drawn up... Although I wouldn't say great! and the horses/skies/plains (nature) was absolutely beautiful and realistically drawn. I must mention that the freedom of wing capes were quite desirable, very cool capes/art.

Eren is anything but a traditional protagonist. While a typical hero is driven by a great sense of morality, honor, pride, or a desire to make the world a better place for everyone’s sake and not just their own, Eren takes every stereotype and crushes it. Having lost his mother to Titian, monsters that he already despised to begin with, Eren’s motivation to join the military and eradicate the Titans are based purely on his bloodthirsty need for revenge, not his desire to improve the world. While it is true that he has expressed that he wants to see the world outside the walls, he didn’t really show initiative (his crazy hatred) until his mother died (although he did plan on joining the recon corps).Perhaps my favorite trait of Eren is that, even though he’s the main protagonist, he is pretty weak as a fighter. That is a quality that makes Eren very real. He’s not an overpowered main character; he’s human. He has powers, but his powers are pretty much the only reason he’s still alive. He’s not some kind of god, and he’s far from invincible. He’s, at the core, just a very angry boy that has lost his mother and wants to avenge her, and he does so with an unbreakable spirit.

As for Mikasa Ackerman, she is a quiet and withdrawn girl and maintains a near constant stoic expression, except when Eren is in danger. Mikasa's attachment to Eren may or not not go beyond feelings of siblings (well, she is adopted). Mikasa is one of those characters that people will love because first off she's beautiful, secondly she's funny and somewhat kind and mean at the same time, and to top it off, and last not but least she's the concrete definition of badass (kicks some Titan ass).

Last but not least our 3rd main character Armin Arlert, a cowardly smart boy who possesses a sharp mind and a natural intuition for strategy which has proven useful on many occasions. Armin Arlert is a character that some will hate for his cowardice and "no fightingness" but others will like because he actually uses his brain, and you have to feel bad for him for being so very human (fear).

Why did I present dragging info on the characters? Because, their charactistics all add so much to the anime. All the other characters in Shingeki no Kyojin are quite likeable, it's just a shame that a lot of them will die out one by one before your eyes. And of course, I will have to mention Levi because he's obviously the most popular character in Shingeki no Kyojin. Why? Well because first of all, he's smart, secondly he's always composed, thirdly he kicks everyones ass, both humans and titans, fourthly he wants to protect people and is in a way a "jesus" figure to mankind, and lastly and most importantly, his fetish for always cleaning makes him a hilarious character.

Even though the whole concept of naked giants devouring humans sounds a little weird at first, the main idea behind it (that is, humans not being on top of the food chain anymore) is pretty well done and the plot grows into an epic adventure that you would regret not watching. Overall the anime is very enjoyable and although some people may call it overrated (it can't be everyone's favorite anime...) I will tell you that you'd regret not watching it for sure. Epic is written all over the anime.

Conclusion: I guess it's a bit overrated considering it could become the most popular anime of all time, but it's certainly not as bad as a lot of haters claim it is. I guess the hate can't be helped though since with popularity and greatness comes hate. But, people can have different perspectives on things, that's what makes humans so great right? That concludes my review, thanks for reading!~
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice153Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
154Show lessOpenGift

Apr 25, 2015
NameWithheld
Recommended
It pains me in a way to not give Attack on Titan anything but a 10. I completely understand why this show got so popular so fast. I also understand why everybody is impatiently waiting for season 2. I want to say that it is really as flawless as people say it is.
But I can't. While I would genuinely recommend this show, I am still a critic. I still have to acknowledge that this show has problems.
As good as this show is, and it is very, very good, I cannot with a good conscience say that it does not have glaring flaws. The biggest is the simple fact that this show has too much talk. I know that dialogue is crucial to telling a story and developing character, but there is a time and a place for it. There were several occasions where they have a really good story coming up in what should be the very next episode, but the show digs its heels into the ground and spends an entire episode talking about what was coming. It just seems like whenever this show can build up momentum, it feels the need to deploy the drag chute. This show is not nearly fast-paced enough. But this problem also appears within the action. There are so many five minute long conversations, or inner monologues, or flashback sessions smack in the middle of an action scene. The pacing of this show seriously needs work.
Thankfully, the good aspects of this show trump the bad ones hundredfold. The action is incredible, the art is distinctive, and the voice acting is some of the best that I have ever seen. Is it perfect? Absolutely not. But it is by all means worth watching.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice153Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
154Show lessOpenGift

May 1, 2014
Ri-chan
RecommendedPreliminary (8/25 eps)
I don't think this review will make me very popular, because I didn't really like Attack on Titan. The first time I tried watching it, I found the first episode so boring and discomforting that I stopped right there. However, as the hype increased and people were hailing it as the best anime of the season, I thought I should give it another shot. The next time I tried watching it, I got to about episode 10 and gave up again. It was too much of a struggle for me. Though after 10 episodes I had started to see the value of the show.

Story: 6
I'm sorry, I really am, but there are fundamental structure and pacing issues with AoT. The basic premise is fascinating—a post-apocalyptic world that was ravaged by an almost biblical plague. All of humanity trapped behind walls that are failing to protect them from the monsters outside—but it's execution is lacking. The world, which appears to be richly structured, is never actually elaborated upon: how did they build the walls? What type of social hierarchy exists as a result of the wall? It spends about three episodes on a single battle and then rushes through the training: we go through 5 years in a matter of 3 episodes and then spend another three episodes on what is about a 4 hour period.

There are also some bizarre story telling choices: [SPOILERS] the protagonist is dead for two whole episodes and in that time they decide it's the best moment to do a flashback to a different character's childhood, while we're still in the middle of a battle sequence. I don't care about her childhood and relationship with the main character: all of the characters are currently in mortal danger and the main character is dead. This is simply not the time. [END SPOILER] There are also general pacing issues: it feels slow, yet we aren't given time to get to know the characters so when the inevitably die, it's hard to really care.

The episodes also have a flat out depressing emotional arc. They start with a smidgen of hope that is just continually stomped down until the end of the episode. I'm sorry, but I like my characters to have a win at least SOME of the time.

There is also something lacking in the Titans as enemies. They aren't smart, quick, or focused. Watching battle sequences with them is like watching a bunch of flies swarm around someones head. It's just not very interesting.

Art: 10
The art is outstanding. No ifs, ands, or buts about it. It's gorgeous. The backgrounds are rich, the motion is fluid, and the characters just look good. There is CG, but it's well integrated, and the colors are appealing and appropriate. The only caveat I might have is that it's sometimes a little hard to tell characters apart (but when there as many of them as there in AoT, it's inevitably difficult).

Sound: 9
The soundtrack is appropriate and distinctive, the voice acting is strong, and the sound effects don't sound unnatural. I only knocked a point off because the opening theme is sometimes a bit much (I was skipping it by episode 3).

Character: 7
Eren is just not a very engaging protagonist. He's a jerk from the moment we meet him, and it feels like he's a jerk for no good reason. He then "redeems" himself by deciding to commit his life to a suicidal pursuit of revenge. I found it's tough to appreciate his character, though I did enjoy his inspirational qualities and his defiance of the hopeless state of humanity.

The side character come off as rather flat. They almost all fit into stereotypes that have predictable story lines. I do enjoy Jean, though, and I would be curious to see if he becomes the essential ally to Eren that I suspect him to be.

Enjoyment: 6
It was fun on occasion, but overall it was not very enjoyable or challenging.

Overall: 7
This is definitely a good series—and for those who enjoy dark, battle driven series, particularly fantasy, I highly suggest it (though I warn that I loved Code Geass, another dark, battle driven series, but disliked this). I hesitate, however to call it great.
Reviewer’s Rating: 7
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice157Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
159Show lessOpenGift

Nov 15, 2014
themegamancave
Recommended
This will be my first ever review on this website, and I figured it best to start with the one series most fresh in my mind. Attack on Titan was one of the most rewarding anime experiences I've ever had. Unique premise, serious characters and a vivid soundtrack and art style make the first season of this show one to remember. I will keep this review spoiler free, as to not ruin the experience for anyone else.

Sometimes animes will fall into the trap of taking themselves too seriously. The main difference about AOT is that it deserves the afforementioned comment. Humanity is on the brink of extinction, being overrun by several meter tall human-like "titans" that terrorize and eat humans for just the pleasure of it. Humankind has succumbed to building three giant walls to protect themselves against the giants, and all was safe and sound....until the first wall was breached by an abnormally gigantic Titan, allowing the smaller ones to get in and annihilate the city. Eventually the invasion stopped, but the damage had already been done... The number of casualties was astronomical. The story continues by following Eren Yeager, Mikasa Ackerman and Armin Arlert as they join the military in hopes of avenging the titan's invasion and The death of Eren's mother. Throughout the series, their efforts are pivotal in regaining a stronghold in the apocalyptic world.

One thing I love and hate about this series is the character development. It's just so damn good. At the same token, it occasionally feels so gut punching when a new character's past is explained, and then they are soon after another casualty in the struggle to survive. The amount of emotions that are invoked while one watches AOT are tremendous. I often found myself speaking out loud during a characters close brush with death or laughing during one of Sasha's hungry outbursts. The story in itself is also unique. I had been hearing wayyyy too many of the same plots floating around recently, so it was a breath of fresh air to experience AOT firsthand... At the recommendation of so many friends.

The art style depicted in this series is also quite incredible. Influences by Claymore and Casshern Sins are apparent, drawing from past experience of AOTs writer, Yasuko Kobayashi. I love how dark and gritty the character models can be, and how vivid the backgrounds are drawn. The music is also epic and fanfareish. The 2 openings also represent the growth of the story and are both extremely catchy.

In a nutshell, AOT is an anime not to be missed by any fan, especially if you love action and greatly developed characters. I can't wait until the second season rolls our way soon.
Reviewer’s Rating: 7
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice147Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
148Show lessOpenGift

Oct 22, 2014
walrusking14
Recommended
What would happen if humanity was no longer on the top of the food chain? How would we adapt, and how would our perception of the world change? Tetsurō Araki came to answer these questions with the release of his latest series. It is a tale of tragedy and revenge; of uplifting hope and crushing sadness. A love letter to the struggle of humanity and its destructive nature. This is Attack On Titan.

Setting:
The exact location and time place of AOT is unknown, but based off of the clothing, architectural style and character names it is safe to say that the series is located around Germany and takes place during the 17th century. Humanity has locked itself away behind three impossibly tall walls named Maria, Rose and Sina. After the outer most wall, Maria is assaulted and damaged titans flood in, starting our tale of woe.

Story:
The story of AOT is quite simple, but not in a bad way. Yasuko Kobayashi (the anime writer) didn't over complicate the plot with half baked symbolism or conspiracy pandering. AOT knows exactly where it wants to go and doesn't waste any time getting there. Don't get me wrong I'm not saying the series is dull, far from it actually; I just find it refreshing to watch a show that doesn't spend the first half trying to convince about me how cool and artsy it is. I knew exactly what I was getting, and AOT never changed that. In addition to the narrative, the actual setting is wonderfully crafted. While removed from reality AOT never strays to far from the believable. Everything fits from a historical point of view; the powerful religious presence, the centralized political structure, the proper use of period weaponry. The only problem with the story its pacing. While fine for most the show it does tend to drag between episodes 10-15. The show presents our characters with a simple task that takes them far too long to complete.

On a side note I found a lot of similarities between AOT and the average mecha story line. While AOT is leaps and bounds over most generic mechas I couldn't help, but make some connections. Angry new-comer discovers hidden robot (titan power), uses robot to avenge loved one, fights others with similar robots, gets butt whooped, gets stronger, defeats opponent, rinse and repeat. I just thought it was an interesting notion.

Art:
I'll start off this section by saying that, for the most part, AOT was animated by a brand new studio with no other anime under its belt. Studio Wit is a surrogate of the well know studio Production I.G.; so its member clearly have experience, but until AOT they had never worked directly on a project as a singular group. So with this in mind it is literally astonishing how much quality this show has. Seriously, if Attack On Titan were a fruit it would be dripping with the succulent juices of grandeur. Most shows allocate their budgets to the most "important" parts of each episode, i.e. the action scenes. In turn this causes most of the scenes involving dialogue and plot development to come off as unimportant and lack luster; when in reality these scene are just as, if not more, important than the ones involving action. However, the animation for AOT never falters; each scene is given the same amount of care as the others. In addition, this show has an air of excitement about it. I could tell AOT was more than just another job to Studio Wit; they truly care about this series.

Not only is the animation beautiful, the art style itself is brilliant. The varying thicknesses of black borders around each character and object helps to add an increased field of depth during scenes of rapid movement. This creates a sense of urgency whenever the characters use their 3DM/ODM gear, only maximizing the excitement the show puts off. The art of AOT is perfect, literally.

Sound:
The OST for Attack On Titan should be used as model to teach young composers about the necessary elements that make up a great soundtrack. While not perfect, the OST hits every note it needs to, and then continues on to become even better than required. Even though all the tracks are great in their own right; a few of them managed to reach the "anime peak of greatness status". Those would include the two openings of the series. Which are easily up there with "Cowboy Bebop" and "Baccano!" (btw second opening is best....let the fighting ensue). Sound design on the other hand sits right at the average mark. Most of the sounds are over used, and were never that great to start. So, after a while it can leave a bad taste in your mouth. It works for what it is, but isn't anything to write home about.

As the astute reader you are, I'm sure you have figured out that I will always watch the English dub if available. So how is the Attack On Titan dub? The best way to describe it would be unique. I say that, because some of the voice actors Funimation picked require a certain taste. For example, Bryce Papenbrook choose voice Eren in a very forceful manner. It reminds me how most people sound when they smash their toe; jaw clinched with a slight growl in their voice. Personally, I rather enjoyed the English dub, but I understand that I am in the minority of this one. I would recommend to watch the first four episodes in dub, and decide where to go from there.

Characters:
In the character department I would compare AOT to the critically acclaimed video game "The Last Of Us". I understand that not everyone is a gamer as I am, but just bare with me here. The characters in both of these are as unoriginal as they come. However, they weave such a unique story and have such interesting development, that in turn, they become fresh and a great enjoyment to watch. Some of the development is a bit rushed at times, but it always comes from a natural progression and doesn't feel forced in the slightest. As any anime junkie would know, that is an accomplishment on its own; especially in this sea of generic rom-coms and forced love triangles. My main complaint is the lack of development for side characters. Some get their deserved screen time, but others only receive some kind of goofy quirk as to be memorable without actually accomplishing anything. We have potato girl (Sasha), bald dude (Connie) and freckles kid (Marco). I want to know their stories and what kind of people they are beyond their stereotypical traits.

Personal Enjoyment/Overall:
All flaws aside, Attack On Titan is one of the most entertaining shows I ever had the pleasure of watching; I can't wait of season 2 to be released. The action is exciting, the story is tense and the animation is beautiful. I give it a rating of Must Watch on my scale of recommendation.

Masterpiece-Best
Must Watch
Watch
Try The First Couple Episodes
Skip It
Run For Your Life-Worst

As usual I recommend you buy a copy, and help support our local dubbing companies and the anime industry as a whole. However, just taking the time to watch it is of greater importance.
As a final statement I recommend that you take my numerical scores with a grain of salt; as numerical scores are easily skewed and each person has their own understanding of the 1-10 scale.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice144Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
145Show lessOpenGift

Sep 29, 2013
tehnominator
Recommended
If there was ever an anime experience that would leave you needing therapy, marathon-watching Shingeki no Kyojin is it. Perhaps this is the best way to watch this series; by the end, you'd be so emotionally exhausted and mangled, you'll know what total despair is like. Not since Berserk have I seen an anime capable of utterly destroying... hope. Yet in spite of its soul-crushing hopelessness, Shingeki no Kyojin is entirely about hope. Without it, mankind would have nothing.

In this world, giants roam the land. These "titans" (as it's been anglicised) prey on human beings. They are brutal, violent and unstoppable. Their arrival is as mysterious as their motives. They do not eat to live. They do not eat anything else. They consume human beings and vomit them out. Humans have become worse than livestock on the food chain. At least sheep or cows are eaten for a reason. There is no discernible purpose for why the titans eat humans. They just do, and living with this fear and confusion behind the giant walls of the last known stronghold is the dwindled population of all of humanity. They've been able to keep the titans out for over a hundred years. Life in a cage, but life nonetheless.

Shingeki no Kyojin begins with the protagonist Eren Jaeger questioning whether this kind of life is worth it. Freedom does not mean breathing boxed in, awaiting death. That's not life and he vows to use whatever power he has to fight the titans. With him is Mikasa, a girl adopted by his family, and his friend Armin. While Eren is strong-willed and rash, Mikasa is calculated and fierce and Armin is thoughtful and soft-hearted; the trio play off one another's strengths and weaknesses in order to survive. And this anime becomes a war for survival.

Eren makes for a dependable protagonist. He carries the series well, despite having some "shounen hero" tendencies but perhaps his enthusiasm is necessary in a world where people drop their swords and flee in the face of danger or who opt to police within the safe walls of the rich inner cities. However, Mikasa is probably the show's great hero. Powerful, naturally gifted and determined, she carries Eren whenever he falls. As he is her only family, she is terribly protective of him. She lives entirely for him, and this may seem to be the only detriment to her character, but her loyalty to him is understandable when you learn of their past. Armin will be nobody's favourite off the bat. Wimpy, small and unable to fight, he has developed his intellect instead. The other characters are well-crafted and have distinct personalities (though they are just as many "Who's that again?" ones as well). Some of the stand-outs are Levi, a very short, extremely experienced and talented captain, Sasha, a girl who seems to gladly choose getting punched in the face by her superiors if it means she can get a potato, Annie, who like Mikasa is very strong and capable, and Jean, a spoiled and cowardly soldier who eventually becomes someone whose growth you can possibly be proud of. It's easy to like them... but maybe it's not entirely wise.

One of Shingeki no Kyojin's characteristics is that nothing and nobody is safe. It is not afraid of itself. It does not shy away from brutalising its audience or characters because honestly, this is a horrible place and time to be alive. It constantly reminds you of human mortality and fragility. Some people might tell you "don't get attached to anyone". Sound advice, but you won't take it. The characters in this series are constructed so well that you will root for them as they pick up their swords and then cry out in disbelieving grief as you see them crushed like a mosquito. Blood and then silence. It's not entirely right to say "nobody is safe" as plot-immortality applies to certain characters and that is quite evident. Although the anime is going to make you doubt yourself.

Gone are the anime physics where someone can go flying into a wall and can get up without a scratch. If someone flies into a wall in this anime, that's it. Game over, man. Game over. This is no anime for children; it is a complete bloodbath. It is not afraid to show you crushed limbs, torn-away faces, stinking, steaming bones, people's necks being snapped like chickens. It doesn't shy away from letting you hear screams of people facing their last moment on earth.

But it's not the violence alone that will sock you hard ones to the stomach -- it's the story itself. The concepts behind what is presented and also actual events will have you reeling. The second arc of this anime more or less will have you screaming "NO, IT CAN'T BE". Because you simply don't want to believe what you're seeing or who it involves. The entire series will have you holding your head wondering what is going on. The characters themselves don't really know, and you share that confusion with them. Shingeki no Kyojin's story is by far one of the most creative and well-crafted in modern anime history. It has the right tone, focus and content. It develops surprisingly at every turn. This is an anime you cannot necessarily lay out a trajectory for in terms of what is going to happen. You take every episode like it is tomorrow -- you ultimately cannot know what can or will happen.

Visually, it boasts some finely animated fight scenes, especially when the soldiers use their gear to go "flying" through the city. This gear is pretty inventive and can be likened to Spider-Man's web-slinging. The soldiers train to be agile and precise using this gear as it catapults them through the air. The best users of this know how to manoeuvre throughout a city block, across a titan's back or across the sky as though it were their first nature. The animation makes sure to keep you on your toes during action scenes, angling shots to keep momentum or knowing just how close to do a close-up for the best effect. The dark lines and general colourlessness of the art style keeps with the tone of the overall series. However, you can see where budgetary shortcuts were had, and while nothing to deter from the series, it is not quite perfect. Music-wise, the sound builds on the horror and the dramatic tension, and while some tracks are certainly recognisable as you watch on, they aren't entirely memorable.

Shingeki no Kyojin is all about experiencing it. You can have time later to think about what's happening or to theorise, but there is no time for that in the midst of watching. There are only held breaths, churning stomachs, wide eyes and feelings of absolute horror. There are times when humanity seems to be getting somewhere, where you think, okay, there's a chance now. Hope. It exists somewhere, as small as it might be, hidden in the depths of crushing losses and corpses and city rubble. It's there, and that's what Eren and his friends will give their lives to find.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9


May 2, 2015
kasser
Recommended
Attack on Titan is one of the manga turned to anime on recent period. It is an Action anime with focus on tragedy and very dark tone, yet maintaining some Shonen-esque messages such as trust and overcoming fears.

Story:
While the story isn't as rich as other shows in general, it is rather a very fresh take on human tragedy without reusing much of the usual apocalypse elements. There is also much lore in the world to keep creative fans making fanworks and adaptions of the world of Attack on Titan. The thrill element is very high and makes you eager to see what's next.

Keep in mind this anime covers only a portion of the manga and stops at the end of an arc. You will have to wait for the 2nd season or continue on in the manga.

Art:
The visuals are extremely unique in style and well done. The value here nearly matches an OVA/Movie feels.

Sound:
People are digging the opening song of the show as well as some soundtracks. However for me it is good but other than the opening, I didn't feel much uniqueness to the soundtracks or specific themes to get attached with. Voice acting is good enough but there is no memorable voice so far.

Characters:
There are lots of variety of characters and they have high appealing. However, in term of design and visual uniqueness, it is very limited since everyone is sticking to his uniform.

Enjoyment:
The action scenes are well done specially nearing the ending of the show.

Overall:
If you are into action, thrill, tragedy and want something that feels new, do not miss this anime.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice141Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
142Show lessOpenGift

Mar 1, 2015
ZephSilver
Mixed Feelings
During that adrenaline rush stage of viewing fast, heavy-hitting content, we tend to lose all train of thought for the pixelated images flooding our screen. We are blindsided by the idea of what could happen next. Our brain racing to process new information as the stakes of any given set-piece is further compounded. When boiled down to its essentials, this rapid succession of quick build up and an immediate payoff is the cornerstone for many successful action titles. That "rush," that moment, is the pleasures we seek out in them; the very thing that makes the action genre so appealing, to begin with. It's for that reason that they remain significant breadwinners across many storytelling mediums. Once we're locked in and find ourselves immersed in the experience, everything else becomes secondary. Who has time to question the practicality of James Bond dispatching henchmen on top a speeding bullet train when we could just sit back and enjoy the spectacle? No one does, that's who! We're too busy living in the moment-to-moment rush to be bothered with any other details. So understandably, this can cause a false sense of judgment when trying to gauge the subject matter's level of quality control. It's easy to buy into the absurdity of any given situation when you're caught up in the middle of it. Thematically, you may just be consuming something that's 90% hot hair and 10% gray matter, but God be damned if that isn't the best 10% mass of gray matter you've ever consumed!

But what happens when we do bother to give ourselves a moment to question it? When all those problematic aspects that we once shoved to the wayside has now been given time to be mulled over? All of a sudden, an immersive experience can become questionable to what was there all along. As we settle down and pull ourselves out of the situation, that excitement once offered by that clump of gray mass has now been slowly revealed for what it truly was all along. We pull back slowly to see the bigger picture, to see the 90% that we ignored; and to our surprises, there it is, the puckered out rear-end of the elephant in the room. Rationality kicks in and the spell that was once hanging over our heads have now been broken. For better or for worse, our blind appraisal has now dialed back to something more rational. The enjoyment that the content offered us may still remain intact, but our assessment of it have changed accordingly. This discernment comes as a result of separating individual enjoyment from that of impartial analysis—or as we regular folks like to call it—"using common sense." We shift from living in the moment to retroactively assimilating the moment. Basically, we as viewers begin to establish our own form of quality-control standards, in more words or less; an act that's too often mistaken as "hating on something" when in actuality, it's quite the opposite. It's the act of fully appreciating and digesting the content, for both its good and bad attributes, instead of pretending those attributes don't coexist in the same body of work.

Ignorance may be bliss, but a proper understanding of the content you consume is true satisfaction.

Today, we'll attempt to do just that with Shingeki no Kyojin (Attack on Titan), as we snap out our trances, wipe the drool off our faces, and take a step back to view the elephant, or in this case, the clumsy naked giant in the room. And by doing so, we'll aim to comprehend what's become one of the most popular anime titles of all time.

Whether you adore or loathe it, Attack on Titan's prominence in the 2010s has made it an ambassador for anime-related content, both in and out of the anime community. And really, it's not hard to see why. It's a show that presented itself as a typical shounen product, but when viewed, comes gift-wrapped in the aesthetic sensibilities of a hardcore, grindhouse seinen feature. The equivalent of which is like parents taking their 10-year old kid to watch 2010's Kick-Ass or Super under the presumption that "it's just another Marvel family-friendly superhero film," only to be greeted with the grim reality that it's anything but. Their newly found realization of this fact coming in the form of bloody entrails being sprayed across the movie screen like celebratory confetti; a consolation prize offered up by the director for getting their assumptions wrong.

Keeping that in mind, Attack on Titan's marketing strategy was nothing short of a stroke of genius. In its 1st episode—where the falsehood of stability within a medieval town was instantly flipped on its head—an act that's commenced by a stampede of carnivorous giants tearing citizens apart in the most gruesome fashion possible; the anime community collectively "lost their shit." Seemingly overnight, viewing the show became something like a cultural event. As the selling point given to the uninitiated went something along the lines of "just wait for the twist bro!" An organic marketing tactic driven by word of mouth was born, the likes of which eventually led to it being in the top 5 most viewed anime titles, on all, if not most anime-database websites by the time the final episode aired. And now, after a few years have passed to see the effects of it in retrospect, it turns out we were witnessing the birth of a new gateway title in the making, as the show became an outsider window into the anime medium and how it falls into the current pop culture landscape at large. All of a sudden, there was a renewed interest for the Japanese import, made all the more obvious when you consider the growing number of companies that are trying to tap into the potentially lucrative market that might present itself to those willing to unearth it. A cultural bubble that's been steadily flowing beneath the business world's feet since the late 80s but with a modern-day face finally being attached, making exhuming it for profit easier than ever. This was no longer "our thing" fellow members of the anime community, this was now on its way to becoming a marketable sub-culture once again, thanks in large part to titles like AoT bringing back visibility to the medium, with its tentpole pitched high for all to see.

This slight removal of fan ownership may have led to the first noticeable wave of backlash for the show. The delicate bruised egos of long-time anime fans that don't want "their thing" being associated with the loud, brutish thrashing of AoT's typical portrayal. And honestly, it might stand to be the most superficial reason to dislike any piece of media as well. Anime as a medium doesn't get to decide what face it will wear in the public's eye, in the same way, no honest-to-God movie-buff like the face of their past-time being represented by any bloated Hollywood remake of a beloved classic.

Popular media, whether that be for music, movies, TV shows or books, are usually represented by the loudest, most accessible examples of their respective medium. Their credibility in these cases is usually secondary to their marketability. So whether you like or dislike the show, just make sure you're not doing so under the pretext of its popularity, because at that point, whatever you have to say will just fall on deaf ears, as this discernment of media is a very rudimentary fact that should be understood by most. With that being said, in an effort to get ahead of the inevitable shit show that accompanies the discussion of any popular anime, let me make my stance on the matter very clear: I LOVE Attack on Titan like a fat boy loves cake. As of the time of this writing, it's on my "top 100" favorite anime titles, while far more critically acclaimed works don't even make the final cut. It may not be seen as a substantive viewing experience, but let's face it, we all need our comfort food, and in the case of AoT, it's the show that serves that role for me—it's my McDonalds.

I see no reason to bastardize the title for its inherent mainstream appeal. That's just how it is. Any criticism or appraisal I will offer towards it from here on out will be based on what it had to offer and NOT the role projected onto it by outside forces. A true critical evaluation of anything, (favorites included), comes with the acknowledgment of both its strengths and weaknesses, not from pretending a work is lacking in either attribute. Now with that long-winded precursor out of the way, let's get on with the review.

The first and perhaps most prominent feature of AoT was its audiovisual output. It may not seem like it today, with the advent of consistently grander looking animated productions, but at the time of AoT's release, the show was seen as a high watermark for televised animated works. Alongside titles like 2011's Fate/Zero, AoT's visual presentation output took on, what was seen at that time, as the kind of attention to detail that was only afforded to animated movies. Before face-palming terms like "sakuga" was widely popularized for describing well-animated sequences for anime series, it was usually narrowed down to just a handful of moments throughout a show's run-time. With the rise of the aforementioned titles, that thought process changed, as well-animated sequences were dispersed throughout the entire runtime, at what seemed to be random intervals, as opposed to before where such efforts were reserved on the basis of selling some penultimate climactic act. Now, seemingly out of nowhere, moments that truly didn't need any extra flair was also getting the same attention-to-detail that would usually be reserved for the first and last episode of any other show. Whether you care to admit it or not, AoT's massive success played its part in paving the way for more flair in directing and presentation in anime shows to follow. But where titles like Fate/Zero only found popularity in the anime community's upper echelons, AoT went on to find even greater success, becoming a household name for even those unfamiliar with the anime culture altogether.

The art and animation were simply boundary-pushing. For the first time in a long time, fluidity wasn't treated as a secondary concern. Layered textures and shading weren't placed on limited supply. Choreography wasn't immediately reduced to speed-lines and the infamous "cut to black" shots to insinuate movement. Backgrounds weren't just scene-placeholders to avoid figuring out the topography of the land in order to give locations a sense of existence. Wonky character models weren't just accepted as a byproduct of "because of the budget." AoT proved that there was a better standard worth aiming for. And no, I'm not saying these techniques or shortcomings weren't found in AoT, they certainly were, but the degree to which the show relied on these techniques to avoid having to extensively animate, direct, or compose scenes, were significantly less, while at the same time, having a noticeable increase in favorable choices usually thought of as rare exceptions.

The bombastic orchestral musical selection, cleanly rendered 3D animation, well-choreographed action scenes, great use of cinematography, anatomically precise character movement, directing tricks usually reserved for live-action films; all of this and more made it an immediate hit with viewers.

It was grand, dare I say it, even "epic." A sense of scale that felt absent in too many shows at the time. Where most action-orientated anime settled for locations that didn't amount to anything but battlefield backdrops, AoT tapped into a storytelling fundamental that the shounen genre all but abandoned: worldbuilding. This may not seem all that significant for a seasoned viewer that bothers to forage through the entries of yesteryear, but for the less-experienced viewer who've only accustomed themselves to the drab landscape offered up by a limited selection of underbaked locations usually presented by this genre; effectively, what AoT did was stimulate an interest that many viewers didn't realize they were yearning for. An interest that makes the biggest difference between memorable or forgettable stories. This creative decision was perhaps the biggest reason owed towards the show's continued success beyond its audiovisual marketing.

But before we could dive into how cool those Spiderman-like web-slinging city-dive shots were or what it meant for the action scenes, we must first examine the massive undertaking that the creators dedicated towards AoT's worldbuilding that made all of it possible.

It's no coincidence that the show effectively opens up by introducing us to the walled-off city and the architectural structures of the buildings inside. Or better yet, the scale of these structures when pitted against the monstrous threat that inhabits this world. All of this was done to help start the process of setting the stage. Something the anime will continuously do throughout its run. You see, proper worldbuilding doesn't just stop with establishing shots, it's something that's supposed to expand alongside the story to help accommodate the content placed in it. And in the case of AoT, that means a whole lot of inventive action, intriguing locations, and tactile environments that feel every bit as convincing to anything found in the real world.

From the title cards inserted at the halfway point to the medieval-inspired European houses, there's not a moment where the show isn't making the viewer privy to new world details, visual landmarks, and macroeconomic world functions. It cultivated a lived-in world for its inhabitants by reinforcing the means of living, the area layout of its civilians, even things that may be perceived as trivial, like the functionality of the weapons that the military uses. You see, in order for things to feel important, you must first give the viewer a sense of existence in the world, to be able to grasp what's at stake for those within it. So later on, when this once considered "useless" knowledge festers in the back of the viewer's mind — seeing the limitations of citizen mobility, the seemingly endless maze of alleyways, and the sense of hopelessness experienced by humanity when cornered by the evil forces out to get them — all of a sudden, the viewer is now standing there with them and not simply on the outside looking in.

Many action movies like 2006's Casino Royale or 2008's Taken don't have to worry about most of this because its world and locations are already accepted as is; this is the true advantage of live-action. This is why James Bond and his antics have very little hurdles to cross to make the audience accept what's going on because the world they're placed in is our own world. It's "real." AoT, and similarly any animated feature, isn't alotted that immediate acceptance, something that's often taken for granted. If the world isn't thought out, it's hard to get enveloped in it. So when you're running your fingers across the rough surface of a moss-covered stone, creeping through the back streets occupied by the dilapidated housing of the common people; their homes built up by lumber that's slightly weathered by decay; contrasted by the sturdy, clutter-free appearance of the religious facility, with its towering structure shooting up over the houses dwarfed below. Or simply lying under a tree, as the grass and blue wildflowers surrounding you are rustled by the breeze, the endless stretch of Wall Maria looming in the background, registering no comment from the citizens, as they accept it just as much as you accept the Pyramids or Eiffel Tower as real-life landmarks; you're getting a firsthand experience of all of this worldbuilding detail at play. You may not be aware of it, but somewhere in your subconscious, these registered efforts are sinking in.

Regardless of what tonal issues the show may have towards the interaction of its world — and trust me, there are some serious issues — the actual worldbuilding itself is pretty solid.

But enough talk about the important things in the background that makes this all work, let's discuss the fun shit that everyone could comprehend; those awesome ass Spiderman-like, web-slinging city-dive shots! Tetsurou Araki, the madman behind this stroke of directorial genius, is no stranger to over-heightened, summer blockbuster-style action. Before AoT, he gave us the most unnecessarily intense, borderline comical potato chip eating scene in Death Note; the physics-defying Matrix boobs bullet-time effects of High School of the Dead; and who could forget, the booty-shorts wearing, boat-hopping leapfrog shoot-out scene from episode 3 of Black Lagoon. When it comes to directing the hell out of an action scene, regardless of how ridiculous the final outcome may be, very few come close to Araki. He's basically the self-aware version of Michael Bay/Zach Synder for anime.

But there's a lot more that goes into making these action scenes work. For one, Araki seemed to have a good grasp on capturing field-of-depth by allowing the foreground and background enough space to properly breathe. Without that discernment, the show could have easily become a muddled mess of incomprehensible motion (think most shaky-cam scenes for action movies). Where it could have turned into a nauseating rollercoaster ride of unnecessary directing techniques, Araki was able to demonstrate restraint when the scene called for it. Which may seem like an odd thing to say with a show that quite literally has people flying across cities and giant naked people trying to eat them.

Another aspect that helped give the action scenes staying power was the sheer amount of diversity given to not only the battle locations but also the titans themselves. From the claustrophobic feeling given off by the town environment to the woodland dominated by towering trees, every battlefield is given careful consideration for the fighting forces of humanity and the titans they come against.

But what good is all of this appraisal of the show's action scenes without addressing the second biggest highlight: the music. "Heavy-hitting" is possibly the best way to quickly describe what the music selection here has to offer. Like Araki, who's reputable track record has brought him fame and appraisal within the anime industry, so too is the case for the man behind the music of AoT, Hiroyuki Sawano. Sawano's musical style can best be described as a mixture of orchestral and electronic. By blending the traditional with that of contemporary music, he's able to give a feeling of timeless familiarity, while simultaneously retrofitting it for a modern audience. With booming brass instruments starting off the charge, primal drums flowing in the undercurrent like a steady heartbeat, the crooning of an incoming choir ascending from the center, and string sections that cascade into the mix with a signature snare; this soundtrack elevates the anime like a shot of pure adrenaline! Riling up the viewer for the events to come.

There's a wonderful symbiotic relationship shared between the audio and visual department of AoT; the kind of dance between elements that's rarely ever this unified. Given Sawano's work on Mobile Suit Gundam Unicorn, Guilty Crown and several other projects before getting involved with AoT, the vetting process was far behind him. What we got, as a result, was someone comfortable with his craft. A kind of swagger only obtainable by true experience.

With the directing of Araki at the helm, Sawano's musical prowess propelling it even further, and the efforts of every other crew member involved, the end result was a type of synchronicity that felt every bit as planned as it did coincidental gatherings of the right people for the job. Sawano's sense of auditory dramatics melded perfectly with Araki's pension for high-octane content, both of which lend itself perfectly to Hajime's writing style that focuses on melodrama and theatrics. What we have on display here was a perfect storm of individual thinkers all working towards the same core sentiments. And while that flare for the dramatic may have worked in the favor of most of what was presented, in some aspects, the outcome was a bit... juvenile.

Which brings me to a presentation decision that may have served as the first point of contention for most viewers of the show: the hammy, over-the-top voice-acting.

The screenplay for this anime seemed to have been composed entirely of capital letters and exclamation marks. It's the kind of absurd overacting that someone like Nicolas Cage might employ on one of his many B-movie escapades. But here, it's played without the slightest hint of sarcasm. And while I found this to be an amusing attribute, and honestly another reason why I enjoyed AoT, given my soft spot for schlock/B-grade content. For most not acclimated into that realm of entertainment, scoffing at these performances may be an involuntary reaction. And for those that do find this annoying, I completely understand.

The general approach taken went something along the lines of this:

-Any other anime: "Let's come up with a plan to get out of this situation."
V.S
-Attack on Titan: "OMFG BRO, LIKE WTF, WE NEED TO GET OUT OF HERE!!! LET'S THINK OF SOMETHING WHILE SCREAMING AT THE TOP OF OUR LUNGS, EVEN IF WE'RE SURROUNDED BY TITANS AND TRYING NOT TO DRAW ATTENTION TO OURSELVES AT THE MOMENT!!!! OK!?!??!"

I wish I was being hyperbolic here, but this is what AoT does on constant repeat. The concept of "inside voices" was completely lost in this universe. So while I may laugh hysterically at the sheer madness of the voice actors seemingly being prompted to "unleash their inner crackhead," I'm in no way condoning this as some positive aspect.

And since we're addressing the issues of AoT at this point, I guess it's time we address the clumsy naked giants in the room: the story and characters.

For every appraisal I've lobbied at AoT for its worldbuilding, the same number of issues can be found with the story that takes place in it. In the process of picking up the ball dropped by many other shounens, AoT accidentally tossed the story down a flight of stairs, where it seemingly suffered a concussion on its long way down. AoT's story was plagued with several issues, one of which may perhaps be one of the worst kinds of narrative conceits: the mystery box. And what I mean by that is that you're watching 25 episodes of "stuff" happen, but nowhere is there a conclusion, or better yet, a sense of purpose or finality to any of it. Cohesiveness is missing, instead, what we have is a series of "and then" plotting choices, as is usually the symptom of anything relying on the mystery box appeal to sell its feature.

If you're reading this, you've either seen AoT or heard enough about it to understand the general idea, so I won't waste my time regurgitating information you could simply find in a synopsis. What we will discuss, however, are the ways these narrative decisions ended up hurting the show. And if that means exposing the number of calories in my unhealthy comfort food as a result, so be it.

AoT is erratic. Having nothing to truly say or no insurmountable goal it's trying to get to means that it could, and did, become one hell of a journey. When your story becomes akin to an unpredictable roller coaster ride of happenings, all to reach an elusive mystery that's ill-defined, yet naked to all those paying attention to it; the sheer level of sensationalized theatrics that the creators could tap into is bound only by their ability to imagine it. This, as a result, ensured that every episode of AoT was marked off with a huge cliffhanger. It basically became voluntary visual entropy. Like the genius behind its organic viral marketing, this scatterbrained approach to "just go with it" storytelling, under the guise of knowing what exactly you're doing, ended up creating some truly spectacular firework displays. It worked in the past for live-action TV shows like Lost, is currently the reason that One Piece can span onward for eons, and will be the reason that AoT will carry that baton into the future.

Success in the eyes of the business world breathes this dilemma: make a true-to-self statement or appease others for personal benefit. You could try to have it both, but that's a goal rarely obtainable; compromise is almost inevitable. If this wasn't apparent enough, AoT's creator, Hajime Isayama, has also gone on record many times admitting to several changes he's made to his original idea for the material, all of which correlate with the reaction given by outside forces. This wasn't done out of an artistic effort to give the "true" experience he envisioned, but simply because the studio heads and newfound fanbase surrounding the project started yelling "we need more!"
It's this same kind of push for more, regardless of what it means to the original vision, that was expressed out loud from the likes of Kazuhiko Torishima of Dragon Ball fame, where he openly stated in an interview that "-it should’ve been wrapped up with the Frieza Saga.” but cited the commonly expressed truth that when something becomes so big and popular, at some point, your vision becomes much more than simply "your thing." Eventually, everyone takes selfish ownership. In the public domain, self-entitlement is an ugly beast that's yet to be tamed. Hundreds of episodes later, and clearly "ending it at Frieza saga" wasn't the case.
"George Lucas is selfish because he won't give the public distribution rights for the original Star Wars screening. Marvel "sold out" because they gave up their movie rights to The Mouse." — there's really no winning this argument either way. The power of the dollar trumps all. The power of demanding fans trumps all. And sometimes, that also includes artistic integrity. AoT became another statistic.

But now we're starting to enter a morbid place, so let's get back to that fun shit! Time to address one of AoT's most talked about features: the shock and awe of its excessive violence.

The violence is the feature that links the "characters" to the story. I use the term "characters" loosely, as its mostly just a wide range of stock-piled cannon fodder; where only being characterized enough to only get a cast mention would be the equivalent of a death sentence. And I'm not talking about any beautiful send-off, as the music slowly swells into a crescendo, I'm talking some really heinous shit! You don't just "die" in Attack on Titan, you are torn limb from limb! You become the center attraction of abject horror! By the time one of these "characters" leave this earth, their arm is stuck somewhere ontop a rooftop, while their torso is halfway down the throat of a naked giant with down-syndrome eyes, munching down without a care in the world. AoT is high caliber schlock. Schlock that transcends to the upper echelons of Tarantino blood-splatter. Schlock that rides the coattails of exploitative media. Cannibal Holocaust would be proud.

It's honestly one of my favorite aspects of the show, but let's just be clear, being a favorite aspect doesn't mean it's a good one. This is my McDonalds after all, let's not forget that. You see, the problem with reducing your "characters" into a Russian Roulette spin of "what person can we brutally kill next?" is that it divides them into two exacerbated sides:

1.) plot armored to gross extremes
2.) expendable to gross extremes.

When main characters are shown surviving death-flag incidents against all odds, despite what the universe shows you about said chances for other characters involved, it renders their upward mobility to success charitable. Even contrived at times. The screenwriter's pen begins to leave creases into the product. There's a clear line made, as clear as their heavy marker-like character outlines. And once you notice who's in the safe zone, it's hard to unsee it. It becomes a blemish for those taking the show seriously. Me, not so much, I knew my McDonalds wasn't nutritional from the moment I purchased it. But for the ones who bought the snake oil, expecting more, that absence of care would be frustrating, to say the least.

And on the opposite side of the creased-outline, we have the fodder. People who are made solely for their eventual deaths. It's like watching people lined up before a gun firing squad. You start remembering them for how they died rather than who they were. They become a part of the blood splattered decoration, their remains paint the walls, the rest, a pile of bodily fluid, covered in stomach acid, left out in the sun to bake, (Did I mention that the deaths were gruesome?) In all seriousness though, AoT's characters are not good in the slightest. They're there to facilitate either cool fight scenes or cool death scenes; there's really no in-between.

And when death becomes a party trick and character success a hand-out, the tension, the stakes, everything, suddenly means so little.

I love AoT, but at no point can I take it seriously, because it's a show that's shown me time and time again that it doesn't even care about itself enough beyond spectacle. For AoT, integrity is a secondhand concept to theatrics. It's schlock entertainment with an A-Grade budget, an as such, some of the best in the medium. But that's where the appraisal begins and ends. Because when the momentary high is over, when I recline back in my couch, settle in, swallow the last bite of that comfort food, my stomach immediately growls and I find myself on the porcelain throne, purging that "good-time" out with projectile accuracy, while simultaneously dispensing a can of Febreeze, creating an artificial cloud to cover my nostrils.

And you know what's the fucked up part? I'm sure I'll still be coming back to have second helpings. There's more to life than veggies, we all need our comfort food, whether we choose to openly admit it, or shamefully hide behind terms like "guilty pleasure." So go ahead, bite into your BigMac and do it without shame, because I'll be the last person to ever cast judgment.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice129Love it Love it1Funny Funny1Show all
134Show lessOpenGift

Oct 21, 2014
IamWEB
Recommended
How does one review an entity such as Attack on Titan? It has gathered a massive following had has taken the anime community by storm. Anyone who calls themselves an anime fan has undoubtedly heard of the show and even those who aren't anime fans probably have seen some kind of merchandise floating around wore by someone... someone like me who has a Attack on Titan backpack. But just because something is popular doesn't make it good.

PLOT: So humans are now no longer at the top of the food chain and were nearly wiped out 100 years ago of 1000ish years ago (they never really explained what time period it it) so humanity is forced to lived behind massive walls to protect themselves from the Titans, these massive naked human looking monsters that eat humans. We start of to see a young trio of children going about their daily life and thinking about what all kids think of, what life is like outside the walls. More frolicking about happens and sudden a massive titan appears and breaks down the wall. Dozens of Titans invaded kill people and we get treated to one of the most emotionally gripping scenes I've every seen in a show.

So now our main protagonist Eren and his buddies Armin and Mikasa enlist in the army and go on their journey to kill all titans. This sounds bland but the story is going at a lightning pace that things change very fast and you can expect a twist and turn all throughout the show that it will keep you on your seats begging for more, or for my case, marathoning 10 episodes in a row. The story breaks the mold of generic revenge story and adds things like conspiracy and thriller aspects that propels the experience. However there are some points in the show were you can so glaringly seen them going all like "This person is TOTALLY normal wink wink" and the foreshadowing alarms go off, but that never distracted from the overall presentation of the story. Also there is lots of action and fighting stuff which I'll get too later...

CHARACTERS:
Our main hero/protagonist is Eren Yeager, a young solider who enlist because he watched his mother get eaten by a titan and wants revenge. He is hot blooded and won't take no for an answer. There's Mikasa who is Eren's stalker/adopted sister/baddass. Then there is Armin who is there to cry, get in the way and make plans for battle situations. Eren is too me at least in the beginning kind of a bland generic character. I've seen these kind of super angry main leads before and most of them aren't interesting. Eren evolves just enough to keep him from being bland. Mikasa is a character that I think is a bit overrated. Before going into this show I read everywhere how Mikasa is the best character ever created and I just don't see it. OK sure is ridiculously talented in combat. OK she isn't a generic tsundere. What stands out to me is here wanting to protect Eren which makes for a lot of speculation as too what their relationship actually is, but Eren is more or less an ass to Mikasa in those situations even though Eren does care for her just not in the same way she does. I'm am really glad that the writers didn't make these two characters love birds as that shtick has been used over and over and over. Armin is the only main character that seems to have a working brain as he doesn't go on titan murdering rampages. He is also practically useless in combat. He comes up with ridiculously complicated battle strategies that seem too always go as planned or at least achieve the objective even after a major fault happens that ends up killing half the squad. Yes this show has the Tomino "kill em all" approach to characters. Everyone in this show you like will probably die, that sounds like a spoiler but its not. I had to start telling myself not to like characters because I feared that they would get eaten five minutes later. Having characters that don't have plot armor makes the show fell more action packed that it already is.... and it is. The interaction between the characters is good and a shout-out to Levi.

ART/ANIMATION:
Well... My word who is funding these people the Brooklyn Nets? The budget for this show must be endless as I never recall a time when this show didn't look like pure awesome. The animation for this show is simply outstanding, the actions scenes are breathtaking, and when they used the 3D movement gear my God does it look stunning. The art style is rather unique too with thick black borders around the characters and the Titans (some of them) look very disturbing. The scenery is gorgeous and those action scenes.... just so good.

SOUND:
THAT OPENING!!! Yea the first opening for this show is amazing. So is the second one. So is the fight music, and so is the dub and yes I said DUB. DUB! I can already see people moving their mouse to "Not helpful" before going onto the next review but the dub for this show was done by Funimation and such is of the up most quality. Bryce Papenbrook is great as Eren because no one can scream like him, Trina Nishimura fits Mikasa almost freakishly well and Josh Grelle does a great job making Armin sound like a wimp because that's exactly what he is. Oh and Matthew Mercer is just silky smooth as Levi. Great job Funimation for getting a good cast.

ENDING (NO SPOILERS)
The ending is paramount. This story is incomplete but there is a second season coming sometime soon so that makes this section pointless, if it were too end right now it wound be terrible but it doesn't so yea.

OVERALL:
Attack on Titan has been the only show that has made me impatient enough to go out and read ahead in the manga. This first season was extremely well done and the series as a whole has tremendous potential to be something very special indeed. I give this a strong recommendation too anyone that likes a good story driven high action series. Attack on Titan is a great watch.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice121Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
121Show lessOpenGift



Jun 8, 2014
TheUnsend
Mixed Feelings
Oh boy, Attack on Titan.
Up front, the more time passes between me, having watched the show and now thinking about it, the more average it becomes. I came to the conclusion, that the show severely lacks memorable moments. Many may call BS on me for that, but really think about it. Excluding what happens in Episode eight...I think, there was almost nothing for me to remember fondly. I'll say, that upon first completing the show, I quite liked it and would have even called it good, but that is just not the case anymore.

Most of the things like character-motivation, their development and the pacing just seem quite off. The characters like Eren, Mikasa and Armin are completely one dimensional and void of almost any interesting aspect.
Now I know. It is shounen, what do I even expect? But the straw of thinking too deep into it doesn't work this time, because even when you scratch the surface of these characters, they still seem to be completely uninteresting. There is no concept worth exploring here, no good idea hooking you to the adventure and what is there, is boring after a few episodes.

I try to at least be as objective as possible with these reviews (try to, not succeeding, shut up), but in this case I can't not mention the constant annoyance the main character and his constant angsting about the things that happened in the first episode, is. Jesus Christ, his whole existence revolves around angst. Realistic portrayals of characters do not just use one aspect of them and blatter us over the head with that non-stop. There needs to be at least one high-moment to correlate all of the low moments. If he is in constant angst-mode and always shouting, it becomes meaningless and more of a joke or a running gag, than a conflict or a struggle for the character. And that problem encumbers most characters in this show. Their constant one-note struggles and conflicts ultimately do not mean anything because it is all we ever see of them. Characters, besides the plot are paramount for me, which is why it is almost everything I talk about in this, but it is the main point I want to give you an understanding of, so there you go.

And so people in this show are not remembered for their characterization or their interesting personalities but rather for very stereotypical aspects and their designs, which is very repetitive by the way. It just looks too bland and uninteresting for my taste. They could have at least incorporated a few different uniforms and colors but no, brown it is.
That could very well be the name of the anime, “brown it is-the anime”, but I digress.
What looked like something good in the first eight or so episodes came to a grinding hold in the boulder arc, did not really pick up after that and just left me with a great desire of the story continuing like it did in the first eight episodes and not the way it did. The few twists it threw in were nothing too surprising and pretty easy to figure out, if you at least try to pay minimum attention. The last scene at the end failed completely in hooking me for the next season and that pretty much sums it all up.

It's almost addicting to not care about this anime anymore. Hype didn't last for good reasons. Stuff's painfully mediocre with a tendency to annoy me more than entertaining me.

OP theme still awesome though.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice101Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
101Show lessOpenGift

Aug 8, 2014
Absolute_Spider
Recommended
Attack on Titan or Shingeki no Kyojin has become one of the biggest anime, at least stateside, over the past few years. Unfortunately many shows that are popular often get caught up in the hype of fans and when people view it when hype has begun to cool down it is often that these shows often get a lot of backlash since they are not as good as everyone who watched it years ago says it is. Fortunately I think that Attack on Titan is well made enough that it will not be seen as trash by viewers years from now when if it does have some issues.

To start out with the good the show has top notch production values. The animation stays great throughout which especially shines during the completely awesome and often brutal action sequences that are sprinkled throughout the series. A word must also be said that the show also has a very unique art style with heavy outlines around the characters which helps the show pop out without doing anything too distracting.

Despite the oldtimey setting of the show the music often has a somewhat electronic feel to it and while some might be distracted the music really helps set the epic mood and at times can get you pumped for the next fight.

While the story is never too out of the ordinary, the world that Attack on Titan creates is interesting enough that you are guaranteed to stay interested in whats going on.

But everything is not perfect unfortunately.

While there are a plethora of characters in the show that are often very interesting, most of the cast outside of the main 3 protagonists don't really get enough screen time to get very developed. It also doesn't help that some characters will just randomly die before you get attached. While one of Attack on Titan's claim to fame s the fact that they often murder characters you often don't get enough attachment to some who die in order to make their deaths have as much emotional weight as they probably should.

The show also has slight pacing problems as the show goes at a almost breakneck pace in the first few episodes until it suddenly decides to slow down. Luckily by the half way point enough happens to make this less of a problem.

Also while this show certainly tries to be epic it sometimes goes into hilariously over the top territory but not too often.

Even with these problems the show is still a great watch. It is quite brutal though so if you can't stand violence stay out. Also the storyline isn't complete yet and at this point a sequel is very likely which is good since I along with many are interested to see where the story goes and aren't willing to read the manga to find out.

So while it may not be perfect Attack on Titan it seems that it is just too big to ignore and that is why I am happy that it is of a very high quality.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice97Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
97Show lessOpenGift

Jan 31, 2014
Demi_V
Recommended
Shingeki no Kyojin (Attack on Titan) undoubtedly made it as the top anime of 2013. Hajime Isayama’s creation gained fans across the globe with its thrills, surprising twists, and memorable characters. Compared to other apocalyptic anime, Hajime develops undefeatable and menacing creatures: giant man-eating titans --- overgrown human-like creatures that range in size and ability.

Story (8)

The suspense is incredible and exciting with constant gory scenes of titans brutalizing humans to the fullest degree, whether it is crushing skulls with their massive thumbs or tearing apart the human body. Combat action involves stunning choreography as armed soldiers spin or fly in mid-air with their 3D maneuver gear before striking lethal blows to titans. Certain circumstances cannot be predicted accurately as SnK shows no hesitation in killing off supporting characters. The majority of the episodes end in surprising and unexpected twists as soldiers fight to save humanity by risking their lives to accomplish one goal: destroy all of the titans. The pacing is steady, allowing viewers to understand the plot and characters with extreme detail. However, the primary objective is too complex to complete in 25 episodes. A cliffhanger ceases the opportunity for more exploration of the titans and other characters.

Tip: In the middle of each episode is a helpful “Info We Can Share So Far” section. It lasts for less than 20 seconds, so it’s advised to pause and read the info. Most of them are hidden data that are not quoted by characters in the series, including history of the titans and info about the communities.

Character (8)

The majority of the characters, including the MCs, have motives behind their actions, and they develop and strengthen after experiencing tragic events. For example, Mikasa’s sole purpose of protecting Eren throughout the series has more to do than just her personal feelings for him. Eren is the main protagonist and has a strong passion to destroy every single titan. He was intolerably whiny and irresponsible in the beginning but slightly matured halfway through the series due to interactions with experienced squad members. He gains common sense and looks at situations from different angles. However, he does not fully develop as his old ways sometimes reappear.

Mikasa and Armin may appear clingy to Eren at times, but the trio spend much time apart with other characters, primarily during the second half. Mikasa is the strong female heroine who is a master in combat action. She’s fearless and presents a major attraction with her swift moves of killing multiple titans in one blow. Armin showed great improvement in his character. He starts out as a coward but becomes willing to strategize despite his fear. He is also quite the genius and contributes to resolving various mysteries of the titans. Along with Armin, there are many characters who present or develop great charismatic skills.

The large number of squad members have personalities ranging from indifferent to determined, and they all distinguish with their levels of combat ability and leadership. Some of their attitudes can be hilarious, depending on one’s sense of humor. The anime goes into the past of some of the important characters and highlight relationships between them. It helps the viewer understand the characters and develop a love/hate relationship with them. The only downside is the inability to explore other important characters before the finale.

Animation (8)

Production I.G. and Wit Studio did a fantastic job with the animation. The thick outlines displays details within the background and character design. The artwork emphasizes excellent visual effects of combat action and characters maneuvering between buildings, trees, and other landscapes. All of the settings from the cityscape to the forest are remarkable. Character designs are distinct, and the unisex military uniforms reveal great details, thanks to the outlines. Characters’ fear and other emotions are generally shown with black lines drawn on their faces, contributing to the horrifying theme of SnK. The black lines symbolize distress, anger, frustration, etc. Bloody scenes of titans crushing and eating human bodies fulfill in making those primary creatures look terrifying. Titans are drawn as ugly and naked overgrown human beings. Some are shown to be skinless, and the vast majority are the opposite.

There are a few problems with the art. There's no distinction in gender between the titans. It was not an issue in the beginning, but it later becomes something important to note in the series. Another poor part about the animation are the stills. There are some scenes that are at a standstill with the characters talking like an idle page in a storybook. Other times, there would be fixed scenes with only one or two objects striking attention with movement.

Sound (9)

The voice actors adjusted to the characters’ personality, making their emotions and identities suitable for the fearful and serious atmosphere. The stomps and groans of titans presents practicality to the anime’s theme, considering the type of monsters Hajime decided to create. The music from the theme songs to the background is memorable. Background music includes warrior-like songs and sometimes fast-paced or choral music during fights. The entire soundtrack adds a grand quality to the series.

Enjoyment (9) / Overall (8)

SnK is one of my favorite action anime, even after re-watching it a few times. In addition to the cliffhanger, I found Eren to be really annoying. There was a scene where Eren hurt Mikasa physically, and I hated him for intentionally harming a lady. SnK’s focus on other characters and increased suspense made it much better. The characters' behavior were humorous at times, and there was always something to look forward to after each episode. As a result, I experienced laughter and shock throughout the series. Due to its popularity, I’m looking forward to a 2nd season and reading the manga in the meantime.

Overall, SnK has entertaining combat action, surprising events, and remarkable visuals. It provides details throughout the series to keep the viewer current on events, and it gives quite a bit of attention to the characters. Apart from its incomplete ending, I highly recommend any fan of action anime to become familiar with the SnK franchise.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice94Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
94Show lessOpenGift

Sep 28, 2013
iSheep
Mixed Feelings
There's only one possible number to represent Shingeki no Kyojin, and that number is a certain one-digit number between 1 and 10 and is a multiple of 3.

You guessed it. Six. Or nine, flipped the other way.

I know you anime whores and die-hard SnK fans are probably sitting in your chairs ready to light torches and grab your pitchforks and form a mob right outside my front door because "six" is a pretty low-end score, at least on my ranking scale let alone for a hyped-up series like SnK, but come to think of it, did you come here to confirm your opinions about SnK being 2013's greatest anime show, or did you come here to whine in American-accented Japanese at the next guy that gives SnK a low score because you hate it when people disagree with you?

I have to admit that SnK, through my eyes, was a decent show at best, decent being the number "six". And before you and wonder "wut skoar did dis n00b giv sao?!?!?!", let me tell you beforehand, I rated it 8, in my own unbiased opinion. I wasn't excited at all to watch SAO, and I was pretty darn excited to hear rave reviews about this new show that brings Jack and the Beanstalk down to Earth, multiplies the number of giants involved, and gives the humans no beanstalk to escape to safer grounds. It sounds interesting, but was it a good show?

Six. I'll stop saying that now.

Story: A fantastic tale about 10-meter-tall zombies eating out every woman and child like certified pedophiles in the world's largest buffet platter with three different types of meals: Outer Wall for peasant's dishes, Inner Wall for middle-class, and the ultimate dessert: the King and his loyal subjects for those fattening delicacies. I believe the first episode gave this story the right amount of pressure to set the rest of the series of events in motion when [literally] the world's largest pop star, Michael Jackson, resurrects as a Titan and has a change of heart to chase after married women instead of children, but a couple of years later, this leaves us absolutely.... nowhere.

See, I'm fine with that, at least it shows humans are struggling to keep themselves off the main course by avoiding intervention with their larger selves, but what accelerated like a rocket from the beginning has become a race to reach the end as slowly and safely as possible. My grandmother doesn't drive slow enough to keep the same pacing as SnK's storyline, and what should be 24 minutes of giant ass-kicking is in reality 15 minutes of build-up, 5 minutes of something ACTUALLY happening, 1 minute to introduce the cliffhanger, 1 minute for the opening sequence, 1 minute for the ending sequence, and another minute for desperate neckbeards to unzip their pants and fantasize about Mikasa Ackerman being their "waifu". That Mikasa Minute usually occurs in-between the build-up scenes, so on the plus side, it gives weeaboos everywhere a chance to wipe their monitors (or leave it there so they can claim to their friends that they also ejaculated on Eren's face).

Art: I can see why every male anime nerd wants to stick something onto their screens every time the females show up. Shingeki no Kyojin has some of the best aesthetics of an animated series that I've ever seen/heard, from the show's sheer amount of gory content to the snapping of bones (which I still feel). On that alone, I've felt something.

Character: A good number of the characters make very little sense to me. Armin van Buuren RIAA Multi-Platinum Arlert makes spot-on predictions because he's probably reading ahead in his own manga series. Eren Jaegermeister wants to kill all of the Titans and save everyone, but his indecisiveness causes more people to die, not that it matters that dozens die in his care. Captain Levi Denim claims to dislike pointless deaths, but every time he sacrifices a soldier, he never completes his operation, and when he executes the operation, more people end up dying anyways. That's like telling people you're a green politician, yet the car you drive is an environmentally-friendly Hummer H2.

We also get characters with very little introduction and very little development, who only seem to fill in the role of creating more pointless deaths. Titans are scary, indeed they are, but are soldiers really THAT expendable? One does not simply self-impregnate, clone, or genetically-engineer new soldiers to fight. Sooner or later, there will be less soldiers to feed to the Titans, but then again, the author could always create new ones out of black matter to keep drawing his fanbase in.

Enjoyment: Despite what I have to say about SnK, I found it to be an enjoyable watch. It delivers softcore male pornography on a large scale, and sometimes it adds an extra X to the already triple-X rating and exposes what's UNDER the skin for those hardcore biology nerds (I know, it's too intense just thinking about human anatomy).

When the action sequences come around, they deliver. There's something special about the 3D Maneuver Gear that allows for more dynamic camera angles, giving you that same high-speed sensation the characters should also be experiencing. However, if I could pinpoint my absolute favorite moment of this show, I wouldn't highlight anything involving 3DMG. Instead, I would opt for Episode 8, the underground scene when members of the 104th Training Corps attempt to retake their base. Why THAT scene, you may ask? Because it's more fun discharging your guns in the Titans' faces, and it's better doing it in a group.

Overall: Yes, I enjoyed watching. Yes, the aesthetics were phenomenal and it did draw me in from the beginning when Michael Jackson went on tour to Wall Maria and ate one of his fans. I thought the action was superb and it was a thrill to watch. But does it make it a great show? In my eyes, not really. Slow pacing, meaningless death, and heavy amounts of build-up define SnK. I know there are people out there who will complain, disagree, and ultimately flame on my profile for disliking SnK, but then again, take this into consideration: I gave this series a 9 from the beginning, and I ultimately decided to drop it to 6. Am I being biased? I don't think so.

But if you hate my opinion, or if you're hoping to defend the glory of SnK by trying to convert another non-believer to your SnK Fan Club or whatever the hell you'd like to call it, then do me a favor and don't try to shove your opinion down my throat. I've had it happen already, and it'll only tell me how much of a steaming pile of shit you are.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice88Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
88Show lessOpenGift

Feb 17, 2014
Yukihos
Not Recommended
Shingeki no Kyojin, the anime that has brought forth a new wave of anime fans and stormed the anime world when it debuted in spring of 2013. An anime that was quickly subbed and added to Netflix after it's airing, that has gained the attention of thousands of people who normally do not watch anime. It has sold extremely well in Japan and the manga has profited well in the States as well. This must mean the series is something revolutionary and a game changer for all anime after it correct? After all it can't all be hype, there has to be some serious substance behind all of this right?

Most fans will tell you off the bat that it is not like other series, that it is heavily violent, shocking, and sometimes horrifying. That it is a world full of interesting characters and sudden death at every turn. And all of that is true...for the first five episodes. After an introductory which I would say is worthy of the praise it gets, the series seems to fall apart extremely quickly and after it's smash beginning has so substance left to support itself afterwards.

I'll spare a summary of the story as it's almost hard not to know what the story is about by this point. I'll give you my thoughts on it in one word: Horrendous. To call the story mediocre would be too much praise. Out of the three main characters only one stands out as anything special, that being the character of Armin Arlert. However as interesting as he is compared to his two other mains, he is given significantly less time on screen to showcase this than the other two. The characters of Eren and Mikasa are without a doubt two of the worst characters ever conceived in any work of fiction. I would attempt to discuss their personalities but there is little to nothing to discuss. A standard cardboard box has more depth to it than those two, and would probably make a better lead character as well.

Ignoring the horrific set of main characters, the supporting cast is dotted with traces of what could be interesting characters, but there is never enough time given to them to let that shine through. They glimmer with hope that Isayama's writing could be something other than pathetic and are one of the only things keeping SnK afloat in an ocean of fecal matter.

The story itself must have been written by a fourth grader at best. The "plot twists" (even calling them that is a stretch) and sudden character death are all presented in such a shallow way it is often hard to care about any character that dies or any new plot development (hint: there are none, the manga is good at one thing and that is providing hundreds of questions and not a single answer). The entire pacing of the series itself is some of the worst I have had the displeasure of experiencing in years. The plot itself goes from moving at a sluggish pace and solving nothing, to a break neck speed where a character is introduced one chapter only to be killed off in the next one.

The art and animation jump between not bad and hard to even look at. The character designs suffer an often same-face syndrome worse than Araki's recent style and excluding background shots, the art is subpar at most and there is much more to be expected from a studio like IG Production. Their is a constant reuse of animations and scenes to such an extent that anyone would has this displeasure of watching more than one episode in a day would find incredibly bothersome. Reusing an animation once or twice is forgivable and almost expected, but to the extent they are reused in SnK there is absolutely no excuse.

The sound design is the only thing I can find hard to complain about, in a series where everything is so awful it is hard to even say something comforting about one of it's only good points. Which is an absolute shame as I can say the OST is probably the only thing to ever get from the anime at all.

My final verdict on SnK will be a series of questions to ask yourself before watching it. Do you enjoy awful characters that have no depth and lack the personality of even a desk chair? Do you enjoy wallowing in absolute shit? Do you have any other reason to watch this other than to laugh at how utterly irredeemable it is? There is not a single good thing to say about the series other than that the first few episodes are "not bad", apart from that it would hurt to attempt to say anything good about this series.

If you still believe you should watch this show, may God have mercy on your soul, for you are going to need it.
Reviewer’s Rating: 3
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice72Love it Love it3Funny Funny11Show all
97Show lessOpenGift

Nov 7, 2013
LausDaeus
Mixed Feelings
To begin, I mostly stumbled across AoT because of its high rating and under that premise assumed that it has to be somewhat decent, which it is. On the whole though, it didn't strike me as spectacular as some people made it out to be for reasons I shall explain below.

Story/Pace: 3/10
To be honest, the first couple of episodes had a wonderful fast pace as the main protagonists advanced, more about their strange world and titan relationship was revealed e.t.c. However, like most animes who give it their full right away, it ran out of ammunition very soon and a good 1/3 of all episodes as of ep 12 (I didn't check, so I may be off) were recaps and comparatively generic giant-vs-human action. So while the story was initially very gripping, I spent the last few episodes grinding my teeth, while hoping for something other than human group A being slaughtered by giant group B to happen and was sorely disappointed. If I only had taken into account the first dozen episodes, this would be an 8-9, but given this endless drawing out, the anime really does not deserve that.

Characters: 4/10
The characters of this anime had their boons/banes, but by tendency, need improvement. Our protagonists are a bit very stereotypical, but made interesting mostly because they keep dying/almost-dying. Generally, all characters are very dramatic and are constantly on the verge of/at a nervous breakdown. Although this would typically annoy me, the anime does deserve credit for making the most convincing war environment I have ever seen (making it much more preferable to those creepy ones where people just casually brush off that their friends just got butchered).
This unique aspect does however trip and fall horribly among the sidecharacters, who both spawn and die like flies. They show up and some of them die 3 episodes later which is very realistic, but perhaps a tad too realistic. I seriously struggled keeping track of all of them and at some point simply gave up on doing so. There are a few more important side characters who will likely survive, but on the whole I find that they all lack depth. One sees too little of them and when one does, they are either killing titans or mourning their friends, which makes it hard to learn new things about them and understand them.

Art: 8/10
I must agree, that a good part of the artwork in this anime is phenomenally well done. The colours have a nice glow to them and the various phyiscal features are appropriate. In that aspect, the anime deserves substantial credit. I did however, notice a number of moments where the animated component was missing and the characters were shouting at the top of their lungs while statically standing there. Other scenes on the other hand move incredibly smoothly, so it seems a bit lazily done at times. Still on the whole, very good.

Sound: 7/10
The music of the anime was decent and created an epic feel for the combat scenes. This has however, been done thousands of times and it didn't really stand out among the other animes that practice this. The voice-acting is harder to judge as I am not fluently Japanese, but seemed appropriate. On the whole the sound is good, but nothing special.

Enjoyment: 4/10
I did enjoy the beginning of this anime, but it then quickly became disappointing due to aforementioned reasons. Towards the end I just felt like skipping ahead to where something interesting was revealed, but the anime ends with ultimately telling little more than what can be garnered from the first few episodes. I did also enjoy the titan fighting, but can say that the 1st titan fight was substantially more impressive than the 30th and as that was the content of all of the episodes, I bored quickly.

Overall: 5.2/10
On the whole I feel a bit bitter about the plot's speed, but for those who enjoy action with high-definition picturesque imagery and epic music, I would recommend it. If you care more about a deep plot with lots of mysteries, don't bother.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice84Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
84Show lessOpenGift

Jul 6, 2015
313_Archer
Recommended
Attack on Titan and I have a history, one filled with love and hate, a re-watch, and the manga. Of course, it seems the entire anime/manga community (and some outside of it) have an opinion on this show. It’s widely popular and has been so for quite a while now. So, just how does this show about giant monsters that eat people take us all by storm? Let’s find out. Rather, I’ll do my best to tell you why I love it (now).

Sometime to note is that I really didn’t like the AOT franchise when I first watched the anime. I wanted to like it, but found the whole thing over hyped and too dramatic. However, after I read the manga and re-watched the show, I know have Survey Corps Cosplay and have become a die-hard fan.

I am up to date on the manga. Detangling my feelings of the anime and manga won’t be easy, but I’ll do my best.

This review is spoiler free!

[spoiler=Characters]Characters in the AOT franchise are 10/10, but, when strictly concerning the anime, they stagger to an 8/10. On the surface, the characters come across fairly stereotypical. Eren, the shounen lead, is obsessed with getting stronger and revenge and possess a (seemingly) random power. Dig a little deeper and Eren reverses some shounen lead tropes. I can’t go into details without spoiling major things for those who aren’t caught up with the manga, but trust me: Eren isn’t a typically shounen lead.

Back to the anime.

A usual some of the most important lines and little moments that deepen characters aren’t in the anime. AOT characters’ growth is subtle, and the high-paced anime may even include those finer moments but they’re hard to catch amidst all the titan killing action. But, if you compare a character from his/her first episode to his/her last, you’ll see how the story has really shaped and changed the character.

Here are some pluses. The characters are also relatively mature (as the show goes along. Warning: some start as VERY immature had have a lot of room to grow). Also, the characters beside the shounen lead get to have relationships (that actually change and grow) with each other. Again, it’s subtle. Bat an eyelash and you might miss it.

The characters make realistic choices. They react and behave like people who live in a desperate and relatively hopeless society. Some of their choices may surprise the viewer and unveil and new layer to a character. They’re not always the decision the viewers may want or like, but it makes the characters interesting and the story less predictable. Many of the secondary characters have unique and distinct personalities as well (this is largely due to the fact that later in the manga their importance increases significantly). Something to appreciate is the fact characters offer different opinions on the situation without the show spoon-feeding the viewer into thinking one view is better than another. Rather, the viewer must decide for his/herself what he/she believes. The show does not give a “right” or “wrong” answer.

However, a lot of characters get tossed at the viewer simultaneously—and about half of them die. Without knowing who lives to become an important character later in the series and who becomes titan chow, it can be a little overwhelming. This is partly why the first time I watched the anime I didn’t enjoy it. People just kept dying so I stopped caring about any of them. This problem also makes it hard to notice the quiet growth between characters and their relationships. Now, after reading the manga and watching it again, I love them all (I even like the bad guys, or, at least, I find them complex and interesting).

Another minus: the characters are overdramatic at times (for me). While I feel the desperation and understand their hopelessness, I still roll my eyes once in a while. Before the story has pulled you and before you believe and feel how sad they are, it can be distracting. I’ve met a couple of people who’ve even found it humorous at times (I never went that far, but it did (and in three scenes still does) annoy me). The show really plays it up too. It will show random scenes of grieving families that didn’t appear before and don’t show up after just to prove how dramatic and dark it can be. The world is dark enough that these moments subtract from the show instead of add to it. [/spoiler]
Score: 8/10

+subtle development
+believable relationships
+varying personalities
+flawed
+more than a stereotype
+believable reactions/personality
-judgmental protagonist
-over dramatic
-too many characters introduced at once

[spoiler=Story] When I first watched the anime, I wasn’t invested in the plot (this is largely due to the fact I wasn’t invested in the characters). After I read the manga, I flung myself headlong into the story and now read the chapters as soon as I can get my grubby fingers on them. After re-watching the anime, I can say the author has had a plan for series from the start. I missed hundreds of little clues while watching it the first time. Answers to huge questions are right in front of your face (I honestly feel stupid for missing them). Some twists are impossible to see coming and only after you’ve caught up to the manga can you fully appreciate how well crafted the plot is.

Some things were still extremely predictable in the anime. I’m hardly ever surprised by big “shocking” moments in anything (anime/manga/books/whatever) and saw a lot of things coming. Others have told me that the anime surprised them, and the show does deliberately play on your expectations of a shounen. There are a few moments where it sets the viewer up to believe he/she knows where the story is going only to whack him/her in the face with a quick turn. That was highly enjoyable.

One thing to keep is mind is the sheer ridiculous appearance of the enemy. Frankly, the titans are some of the stupidest looking villains in a story to date. While terrifying, it’s humiliating to watch humanity get wrecked by funny looking naked giants (a fact even the characters address). Humanity is often compared to cattle as well, which leads me to think the viewer is supposed to find it frustrating and embarrassing to be defeated by such monsters.

As for the plot itself, there is nothing particularly unique about it. The world feels well explained and detailed. And, better yet, it’s surprising easy to relate too. If you feel powerless, like nothing you do matters and all you want to do is matter, somehow; if you feel like there are problems you just can’t face but you wish you were brave enough to stand up against—then this story will touch you, heart and soul.

Stripe the story down to its bones and it’s about people struggling to defeat enemies larger than themselves, to face despair and learn how to keep moving. I’m serious here. The characters’ goal is not survival but for their deaths to have significance. In this sense, AOT goes beyond an anime. It reveals the heart of a desperate people and how to never give up.

These characters have simple dreams and desires batted against insurmountable enemies and stark fear. Such raw simplicity rests in most human hearts, and I believe a lot of people connect with that and turn this story into something bigger. I certainly didn’t the first time I watched it, but I do now. Now, when I see the Wings of Freedom, I see a symbol of hope and determination. I see people who are willing to sacrifice themselves despite their fear and doubt because it’s the right thing to do. I see someone I can aspire to be because theses characters are afraid and angry and flawed just like me. I see heroes I can believe in.

A lot of the sentiments I’m referring to occur after the Survey Corps appear. I believe the story improves immensely after its entrance. I find the Survey Corps the real heart and protagonist—if you will—of the series. Don’t misunderstand: the individual characters are fantastic, as is the first half of the show. But the Corps is who and what I connect with.

A step away from the sentimental and existential-ness of this review, the plot is put together extremely well. It moves fast without sacrificing character development. And you can tell the author has an endgame. He knows where he wants this story to go and is slowly taking the viewer there, revealing one little fact at a time, usually one that only opens more questions (the manga has answered some and created more, but things are starting to congeal and it’s fantastic!) [/spoiler]
Score: 9/10

+fast paced
+easy to follow
+interesting plot twists
+few plot holes
+believable desperation/situation
+plays with expectation
-fairly typical
-lack of investment (if not invested in characters)
-a little overwrought


[spoiler=Art]Amazing. It’s crisp, bold, and brilliant. The fights are brutal and fast and don’t cut too many corners. You get to see the full battle, not two characters screaming “AAHH!!!!!” and then clashing once in a kendo-like strike. [/spoiler]
Score: 10/10

+unique style
+detailed
+fast battles

[spoiler=Music]This soundtrack makes bells sound badass. It has a variety of sounds and languages as well (German, English, Japanese). It’s creative, intense, and will make your heart pound. I consider it one of the best anime soundtracks I’ve heard.[/spoiler]
Score: 10/10

+epic sound
+blend of battle and emotional
+sets clear tone
+adds intensity to scenes

[spoiler=Angles] They put a lot of thought into their angles. I’ll go into detail about a scene here to show you just how much. I’ll avoid names for spoiler’s sake. Character A must pull off a risky stunt into order to protect the walls and discusses the plan with Character B. Character B asks Character A if Character A can do this. Then Character B asks Character A what [he/she] wants to protect. Behind Character B, you see all that’s left of humanity and just what is at stake. Brilliant and subtle, the angles add an entirely new dimension to the show. [/spoiler]
Score: 7/10

[spoiler=IntroOutro] The first intro is fantastic. I love it. The second intro first few notes feel like a Fire Emblem theme, but I still enjoy it. The outros for me are interesting because both incorporate the narrative. The first has a rather obvious connection to a character’s growth, motivation, and story (not to mention stunning animation). The second is less obvious, but centers around several theories. And, if you know what I know, does some interesting things with the characters. [/spoiler]
Score: 8/10

[spoiler=FemaleRepresentation] This show doesn't have time for romance or gender roles. Humanity has to survive. Gender is hardly even mentioned. No one cares if you’re a girl or boy—it doesn’t matter. Girls and boys are treated the same way. I’m serious when I say gender is hardly even mentioned. There is actually one character whose gender has been unconfirmed because the author doesn’t think it matters. The girls are not sexualized and are just as strong as the boys. And, you usually don’t see this: girls and boys have the same uniform. Girls are not illogically fighting in skirts but also wear pants, which makes more sense to me. [/spoiler]
Score: 10/10

+given equal treatment to males
+can actually fight
+practical armor
+varying personalities
+more than plot device/love interest
+aspirations beyond love interest
+no fan service

Sub vs Dub:

I watched the first five episodes in dub and nearly stopped watching the anime. I apologies to all dub fans, but I found the dub absolute trash. Even now I refuse to watch the show in dub. The sub, however, does a fantastic job.

Warnings:

AOT is tremendously gory and violent. While toned down from the manga (surprise, surprise), it’s still brutal and graphic.

Overall: 8/10
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice79Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
80Show lessOpenGift

May 22, 2015
tuturu222
Recommended
Story - 10
Art - 10
Sound - 9
Character - 10
Enjoyment - 10

I won't go on too much, I just really enjoyed this and thought I'd bump it up this list a bit more. I think this would appeal to many westerners... it's brutal, it makes you think, makes you feel and most of all it immerses you. I've rewatched it through 3 times (once on my own, once with my friends and once with an ex) just for those 3 episodes at the end! Pretty big deal for me considering I usually have to wait at least 2 years to properly enjoy rewatching a show, and I've watched it 4 times within that same space of time.

Finished this for my first time between the end of 2013 or start of 2014... can't remember when but I've been as eagerly awaiting the sequel (which is out in 2016 :
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice80Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
81Show lessOpenGift

May 11, 2013
PseudoWeebo
RecommendedPreliminary (5/25 eps)

Although it is difficult to review an anime after only five episodes, it is certainly possible to make a few observations about it. Shingeki no Kyojin it is a dark, plot driven anime focusing on the battle for humankind very existence, and it's brutal. There is no Moe, no fanservice and aside from a memorable scene with a potato, very little comedy.

In these first episodes the balance of power lies very much with the titans. Human kind loses; a lot. In fact many have already accepted that they cannot defeat the titans even with their largest armies so argue against even attempting to fight them.Those sent to fight against the titans are as afraid as everybody else, and the anime does a good job of portraying believable human fear in these characters. The characters themselves may not be the most developed but they work well, the main trio being the hot headed idealistic Eren Jaegar, his bad-ass childhood friend Mikasa and the weak but smart Armin.Their designs aren't anything special but that is made up for by the titans themselves.

There is considerable variety to them, from hulking monstrosities down to smaller almost comically grotesque monsters. Although the titans themselves are beautifully animated and the animation is generally of a very high quality, providing sufficient fluidity in the movement of the 3D maneuver gear, the shows unique art style may prove jarring to some viewers. The soundtrack is another strength of the show, with the opening especially being catchy and fast paced in a way that reflects nicely on the show it's self.

Shingeki no Kyojin is a tense action packed show that moves quickly and isn't afraid to show violence. It's not for everyone but it provides a cool interesting premise with stunning fight scenes and a brilliant soundtrack. It is something I'd defiantly recommend people to try at least due to it's originally and high quality.
9/10
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice78Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
78Show lessOpenGift

Nov 9, 2013
Link_of_Hyrule
Recommended
**SPOILER FREE REVIEW**

"Sind sie das Essen? Nein, wir sind der Jäger!"

This German phrase, which roughly translates to "Are you the prey? No, we are the hunters!" Is a term that people who have watched this anime are all too familiar with by now. Attack on Titan (a.k.a. Shingeki no Kyojin) is to 2013 what Sword Art Online was to 2012; a show so hyped that you can't call yourself an anime fan if you haven't at least heard of it. While I haven't finished watching SAO, I am well aware that the majority of people feel it was ruined by the hype. Does AoT fall into this same category, well, honestly, no. I don't think it does.

Story: 8/10
In an alternate universe, humanity has been nearly wiped out after the appearance of a new species of beast whose sole existence seems to be eradicating humans; the titans. Titans are massive, mysterious creatures whose origins, method of reproduction, and true motivations remain completely unknown to humanity. The humans have retreated into 3 circular walls that are large and strong enough to keep the Titans out, but for how long?
AoT gets major props from me for creating the darkest, most convincing, most tragic war environment I've ever seen in a TV show. The sheer amount of suffering, physical trauma, psychological trauma, and portrayal of devastation is so horrible and disturbing that it is beautiful. If you like watching happy-go-lucky, feel-good anime, this show is NOT for you. Rule number one of watching AoT is to NEVER expect something good to happen. Doe it seem like something good is about to happen? Well, something bad is probably about to happen.
AoT really manages to create an atmosphere where the viewer is viciously cheering for humanity to prevail, and that is no easy task. And of course, that just makes it all the more devastating when that character you were finally starting to like gets eaten. The storyline is extremely engrossing and interesting, but due to the fact that the story is incomplete (hopefully season 2 will be announced soon), I can't give it 10/10 or 9/10 in good taste, but AoT is very much a plot driven anime.

Art: 9/10
Very detailed and stylized. Style is something that is very hard to explain, but it fits the atmosphere perfectly. I loved the art.

Sound: 10/10
EPIC soundtrack. "Epic" is an overused word, but all you have to do is listen to the opening to know that this show is just EPIC! The voice acting is stellar as well.

Characters: 7/10
Seeing that this is an anime that is not finished, it makes sense that a lot of the character development is also unfinished, but the main characters are all intriguing.
Eren, the protagonist, is headstrong and reckless, but also very compassionate. He has a fascinating and tragic backstory (that the show still hasn't completely told), and his internal struggle between either sacrificing his humanity for the good of his race or maintaining his humanity and saving every individual he can is very engrossing and one of the show's strong points. Eren is clearly a round character and I like him quite a bit.
Mikasa is Eren's childhood friend, and to say Mikasa is protective of Eren is an understatement. She has no family left, so Eren is the only thing that keeps her going any more. She is by far the best fighter out of all the recruits and is a total badass when fighting. You can't not love Mikasa...
Armin, also Eren's childhood friend, is a frail boy who isn't much of a fighter, but possess great strategic intellect. He has proven to be one of the show's more dynamic characters as he breaks out of his shell as the anime goes on and realizes that he isn't as useless as he thinks he is.
Levi is a BAMF. That's all you need to know.
There are also tons of intriguing side-characters, but I wouldn't get too attached to them if I were you. NOBODY in this show is unkillable, except probably Mikasa. Don't be surprised when a seemly major character gets eaten in the blink of an eye. AoT really keeps you on the edge of your seat in that regard. If the show was complete and the character's development was finished, characters would have likely gotten a 9/10 or 10/10.

Overall: 8/10
So far, AoT is the rare case of an anime living up to the hype. With an epic plot, complex characters, badass art style, and an epic soundtrack, AoT has the potential to be something really special, but lets wait for the end of the second season (which will totally be announced soon) and it's ending to draw any conclusions.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice70Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
71Show lessOpenGift

Aug 1, 2014
Durbikins
Not Recommended
The fact that so many bloggers still name Shingeki no Kyogin “the greatest or most significant or most influential" anime series of 2013 only tells you how anime still is from becoming a serious art. Anime critics have long recognized that the greatest anime series of all times are Neon Genesis Evangelion and CardCaptor Sakura, who were not the most famous or richest or best sellers of their times, let alone of all times. Other critics rank the highly controversial Aku no Hana over classic anime who were highly popular in courts around Japan. Teenage bloggers are still blinded by commercial success: Shingeki no Kyojin sold more than anyone else (not true, by the way), therefore they must have been the greatest. True anime critics grow up watching a lot of anime of the past. Shingeki no Kyojin fans are often totally ignorant of the anime of the past, they barely know the best sellers. No wonder they will think that Shingeki no Kyojin did anything worth of being saved.

In a sense Shingeki no Kyojin are emblematic of the status of modern anime criticism as a whole: too much attention to commercial phenomena and too little attention to the merits of real anime. If somebody composes the most divine anime seires but Crunchyroll refuses to hype it up and stream it around the world, a lot of bloggers will ignore it. If every teenager on MAL hype up an anime series which is as stereotyped as one can be but launches it worldwide, your average critic will waste rivers of ink on said series. This is the sad status of modern anime criticism.

Shingeki no Kyjin sells not because it's the greatest anime series of the decade but simply because it is easy to sell to the masses: it has no difficult content, it has no technical innovations, it has no creative depth. It's just a bunch of gritty 3-minute action scenes which teenagers like to overhype and rave about how "epic" it was. If somebody had not invented "Shingeki no Hype" in 2013, you would not have wasted five minutes of your time to read a page about such a trivial anime which is mediocre at best.
Reviewer’s Rating: 4
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice56Love it Love it2Funny Funny3Show all
71Show lessOpenGift

Nov 26, 2013
Honksea
Mixed Feelings
So, SnK. Undoubtedly the most popular show not just of spring and summer 2013, but of 2013 as a whole. You can't go on an anime related site and not see it, and it's very likely to pop up in discussion. Hyped to high hell by almost every anime fan out there. But does it deserve all the attention it gets?

Story: 4/10
The premise was great, and had me quite interested at the start. The idea of humanity fighting for their life against an unfathomable opponent who popped out of nowhere is quite interesting. But did the anime deliver? I'm afraid I'd have to say I was slightly disappointed. To start with, it damn interesting. Titans attack, mass panic, humans forced to retreat, great; Interesting. What wasn't so interesting were the episodes which followed.
While the scenes with titans in them were intriguing, and at best enticing, everything in between seemed like filler. At one point I even recall the cast spending 3 entire episodes discussing moving a boulder, how to move a boulder, and the main character angsting over turning into a titan in order to move a boulder. I'm even partially expecting the OVA to be about the boulder.

Art: 3/10
I mean, come on. Am I really supposed to rate it higher than that? The animation and art in this show was incredibly lazy. The show was chock full of still shots, some of which lasted for over 5 seconds, and panning over motionless scenes, without the characters moving a muscle. A lot of powerpoint-tier animation in there as well. The character designs weren't terrible, but they definitely weren't marvelous either. I also am of the believe that the show's artists were having a contest to see who could make the most ridiculous looking titan, which, in all honestly, could be more entertaining than the plot progression of the show at times.

Sound: 6/10
No complaints here. I do feel like a few sound effects, like the titan-transformation, were repeated, however.

Character: 4/10
No one really stood out for me. The only character development I can note is if they were about to die, and in most cases they did, so they're dead anyway. Minus points for having a main character who's entire personality was REVENGE and I'M GONNA KILL THEM ALL, and a female lead who's motivation consisted of protecting the main character. Bonus points for Jean.

Enjoyment: 6/10
It's not all bad, I actually enjoyed the show a little, although it did annoy me at times when literally nothing was happening. But, I won't deny I found the show overall entertaining, but most definitely not on the level a lot people seem to. I'm honestly baffled by how this show became so popular as I can only fathom it as slightly above average at best.

Well, that's all. Overall, I'd say that The Eotena Onslaught is a decent show, but don't go and watch it expecting a masterpiece.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice74Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
75Show lessOpenGift

Oct 1, 2013
smileyboyrocks
Recommended
Popular anime very rarely receive balanced reviews, which is a shame, because they often set themselves up for a balanced judgement. You either get people worshipping the ground that it would walk on if it hypothetically grew legs and start walking, or people throwing so much crap at it that it becomes in serious need of a shower. Shingeki no Kyojin is no different in this regard, but almost uniquely among recent mainstream titles it's actually deserving of much of the praise it gets. Don't get me wrong, you can still expect a balanced review here. This certainly isn't the life-changing and complex masterpiece that many people will promise you, but neither is it as shallow and bland as a lot of shounen anime prove to be.

When examining the story, it's best to get the flaws out of the way first. Shingeki no Kyojin is predictable. Very predictable. In fact, the final 2 arcs hinge upon an important mystery element, and if you haven't worked out the big twist almost immediately, then you must have already kissed your braincells goodbye. It certainly does have surprising elements, but when the progression of the plot becomes dependant upon a major story twist it starts to become a little obvious how things will turn out. A second key issue that the series suffers from is a lack of engagement around the mid-point. I'm talking about the "Battle for Trost" arc, when I simply found that I no longer felt emotionally invested in the story, nor did I particularly care about the conflicts of the characters. One suspects that this is a side effect of the conversion from manga to anime (though I can't be sure, as I have not read the manga). Shingeki no Kyojin tends to place a lot of dramatic flare on events but the action and development that take place in this arc were perhaps not entirely suited to the impactive stylistic elements that we witness, and it all starts to feel a tad inane.

Now, it's important to note my use of the phrase "impactive stylistic elements," because when I say that Shingeki no Kyojin has dramatic impact, I mean it. It might not be the most amazingly well-written anime in history, but it certainly ranks among the most absorbing as well as the most intense. It builds a rich and complex world with an interesting society and carefully crafted history. We see the structure of the military, the social class system and the lives and attitudes of various demographics clearly laid out before us even when they are not necessarily integral to the plot. It makes it believable, and that makes it absorbing, and this in turn can make it both gripping and powerful. When the action hits it's a cathartic experience, riddled with brutal violence alongside the typical OTT flash of the shounen genre. It looks good and it hits hard. When it slows down to prioritise drama, it generally feels personal and relevant (with the finest example being the finale of the "Expedition" arc). The characters do feel a little static unfortunately, but there's some nice development thrown in that hinges upon decent character conflicts and interesting backstories. At times however, it becomes apparent that several characters are forgotten throughout the course of the story, though it is entirely possible that a continuation will expand upon these unfortunate victims of limited season length.

Highly stylised while still showcasing normal anime conventions, the art and animation are entirely deserving of all the praise they get. The animation has weight and the aesthetic is effective and unusual. At times, and most often when the show slows down, inconsistent character models become noticeable, but not to any concerning degree. And if we're talking sounds, then it's damned close to perfect. Fantastic musical score and great voice acting. Whatever you think of the story, you'd be wrong to call Shingeki no Kyojin anything other than a technical masterpiece.

Not much else to say, so I'll leave you with this closing statement: watch it. Even if, like me, you tend to adopt the attitude that because many people lack critical judgement it means that most mainstream anime aren't as good as popular opinion might imply, at least be open-minded enough to appreciate the possibility that, just this once, the majority may be right.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice67Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
68Show lessOpenGift

Jun 12, 2015
JoshuaSan1017
Recommended
The first season of attack on Titan was one of the most interesting animes i have watched. A great story with still so much to be discovered. I found that the story represents a racial war. You see the titans almost have no reason to kill as many humans as they do. It represents what Caucasians did to the african Americans back in the slavery years.

With a great story, exceptional graphics the only place i saw Attack on Titan go wrong was the characters. Now im not being to critical, we can all imagine that we would be just as traumatized and upset as Eren, Armin and the others are due to the fact that there are giant Titans eating all your friends and family. But its just not your typical anime characters. There is so much crying and a lot of the show is characters weeping about how terrible there life is, its just not the anime i am used to. Maybe, in a way thats what makes it better than most anime, the fact that characters show so much emotion. Instead of having a fearless character like Goku or Inuyasha you have characters who are scared and admit their fear.

Attack on Titan is a wonderful story and I myself can not wait for Season 2. I give the first season a solid 9/10.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice67Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
68Show lessOpenGift

Jul 22, 2013
Quitch
Mixed FeelingsPreliminary (Unknown/25 eps)
This is an anime I at times loved and others hated.

It has a great sense of timing, there's some fantastic "OH SHIT!" moments and it's not afraid to just dump all over the middle of someone's power of friendship speech. Whenever this anime is about the titans it's a really good anime, the sheer unstoppable force of them combined with the mystery of who or what they are and how they came to be carries the anime forward.

Unfortunately the writing is dire. Absolutely dire. In episode 4 the writers actually have a character tell us what the personality traits of the characters are. That's right, they've done such a terrible job of getting this across that they just come out and tell us. You're so uninterested in the fates of most of these people because the anime spends no time building them up or ensuring you get to know them, and the action is less because of it.

It also suffers from endless internal monologues. The writers will just not shut up and show us something, they need to have someone sit on screen for three times as long as necessary and think it at us. In one scene one character monologues about how another is pale and breathing hard. It's insulting. It's a goddamn visual medium but rather than show us these things the writers vomit their awful dialogue all over everything.

Unfortunately this bad writing takes its toll and the anime rather jumps the shark around episode 10. An intriguing ride up until then though, with some moments good enough to compensate for the writing.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice61Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
63Show lessOpenGift

May 12, 2013
MojoChaos
Mixed FeelingsPreliminary (6/25 eps)
*This is one of my first reviews, so let's see how I do, shall we?

Attack on Titan, possibly this year's most popular anime.... and surprisingly, one of its worst as well. Although being immensely popular, Attack on Titan does not live up to the reputation that so many believe it does. Yes, the action and excitement are all very easily seen, yet the predictable/cliche story and the absolutely horrific characters makes this the SAO 2.0. In short, do not expect to be blown away by any means, in fact, prepare yourself for a rather emotional and boring ride that will make you wonder why you are still watching.

To begin with, let me clarify by saying that this won't be an extremely long review, as it has only been six episodes, but I will still mentions as many things as I can for now.

Story: The story in AOT revolves around a world were humanity struggles to survive against giant, genital-less Titans. While the story is fresh and includes very nice aspects, the predictability of the story is insane. It is incredibly simple to point out what will happen and when it will happen, and there were almost no surprises that ever arose from watching. Also, the story has some very weak spots, but now it seems that most shows rely on intense action and gore rather than the simplistic aspect of continuity. Furthermore, the show focuses on the aspect of throwing a lot of blood around to make an attempt to affect the audience, when it actually fails to influence any sort of emotion to come forth. Thus, I give the story 6/10 for being good and new, but incredibly boring.

Art: The art is actually one of the positive points in this mediocre anime, specifically when speaking about the Titan's ruthless smiles. Other than that, you have smooth action sequences and very gory scenes that couldn't have been more bloody. 9/10

Sound: Opening's great. I don't approve of the ending though, and action sequence tracks are pretty good. 9/10

Character: Now, AOT makes a fairly silly attempt to draw in their audience through rampant emotions, namely, Eren. Eren would be described in anime as: "The Little Train that could." This emotional roller coaster of a character fails to use logic at any given moment, rather, Eren relies on iron strong determination that will somehow be able to physically harm these giant Titans. He is more childish than any other character and has no actually talent. Yet, this boy will miraculously save humanity, you can bet on it. Furthermore, you have the useless Armin, the unnecessarily complicated Mikasa, the potato-eating, unneeded comedy relief in Sasha, and a whole gang of terrible characters that meet the bare minimum for supporting characters: being alive. Although, people have been able to turn away from these hideous creatures that are our characters, and focus on the "fantastic story and action" which doesn't exist. Overall: 2/10

Enjoyment: If you watched Sword Art Online and loved it, it is merely because you enjoyed it, more so than critiqued it. AOT is the same. In terms of enjoyment, it is great, but in terms of critique, its flaws can be spotted everywhere. So ultimately, it is up to personal preference. While I want to say it will get a 9 for enjoyment, the utter disgust of watching the characters and cliche story makes me want to give it a 5, so 7/10.

Overall: Attack on Titan fails to reach the standards that have been set for it. The story is rather cheesy, and the characters are a mess. AOT ultimately shows that an anime will not simply be great because it shows death and blood, rather, it needs a balance of characters, plot, and theme to get the job done. Hopefully, AOT becomes better, because right now, it deserves a 6/10. Nothing special, unless you are easily entertained by puerile attempts to become one of the great anime.

I'll write another review for this after the season is over, but for now, AOT is a letdown.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice63Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
64Show lessOpenGift

Jul 12, 2015
Alexeii
Recommended
This review is spoiler free.

The name''attack on titan'' might not seem that interesting. At first I thought, giant brainless creatures that eat humans? so what? But then it turned out definitely unregrettable.

The story is hardcore (I believe one word is enough) and so is the soundtrack. Never have I ever seen a soundtrack that suits the story and the fight scenes that well, it litterly sends chills down your spine, which is why I rated it 10 (and I never give 10). As for the art and the charcters, I can honestly say the design is more realistic than anything else. I remember the first episode left me shaken because of the single thought that this could happen for real. However I hated the fact that so many characters died before we got to know them well. It didn't keep me from enjoying it anyway, though you would rethink the definition of enjoyement after watching this anime. Shingeki No Kyojin is definitely not something for the soft hearted or those who easily get attached to fictional characters (which is nothing to be ashamed of).

Just to say, you might wanna watch this anime before you die.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9


Jul 8, 2014
Inception92
Mixed Feelings
One thing I would like to say before anything else, don't believe the hype.

Starting off with the story. I find this right here to be half and half. As far as the background and history shown, and the world that was created I think it's really good. I liked the idea of humanity living behind walls, drove to near extinction, finding the overall story of the world to be pretty original in anime. However, on the other side, as far as the actual, episode to episode, overall story of the season... I find it to be very lackluster. The show forces shock value down your throat, showing mass death almost every episode, to the point where it seems like the makers don't know how to tell the story without throwing genocide or murders in every other episode. Aside from the forced shock value; there is barely anything worthwhile that happens in the story for the first season. Not to mention most of the season is composed of two 8+ episode arcs, which are very drawn out. I could go into much deeper reasons, but don't want to spoil anything.

The art style and sound are both pretty decent. I find the art style pretty unique, although when it comes to the sound, aside from the first opening of the series I find the remaining themes pretty generic. The first opening does pump you up and in my opinion blinds people into thinking the show is going to be "super epic".

Now for the characters... I am not kidding when I say that the main characters in this series are complete crap. Eren is definitely the most boring main character, compared to a lot of others; I hated Sword Art Online but I thought even Kirito was more interesting than Eren. All Eren does is shout and preach, like he's the center of everything but has barely anything to back that up. And aside from his titan-related trait there's nothing else to him. I find Mikasa an empty character who only lives for Eren, who makes it seem like she can't even think for herself without him there. The only thing she has going for her is bad ass action scenes with her, which delude people into not looking past that and seeing a shallow character. And then there's Armin, who is a complete pussy and useless for the first 7-8 before he slowly starts becoming useful; most of the time he's shown he's either whining or showing how incompetent he is. He does get better down the road, and out of the three characters his is probably the best.

Attack on Titan is apparently hailed as "The Best anime of 2013" and some going as far as saying "The Best Anime Ever!" When in reality, no. A lot of its' fans make it seem like that you have to fall head over heels for it, and act like if you think it's bad then you don't know what good anime is.

Not saying this isn't a bad show, but I find it majorly flawed, and wish that more people would sit down and really think about this show before they praise it like they do. In my honest, serious opinion, I really am concerned about people who claim it to be the best anime of 2013.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice63Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
63Show lessOpenGift

Feb 4, 2014
Evillordexdeath
Mixed Feelings
The best way I can think of describing my experience with this show is that I found it profoundly uninteresting. So much so that I find myself in a position of being genuinely unable to understand why it is so well regarded. Which is unusual for me - I can usually understand the appeal of something even if I don't care for it myself.

Perhaps the biggest issue that I find with it is that the cast consists largely of shallow stock characters. For me this is what really kills the anime, I think. I just couldn't find it in myself to care about anything that happened because of them. This wouldn't necessarily completely sink an anime on its own, though it would have to have some pretty significant strengths in other areas to make up for it, and Attack on Titan doesn't seem to have any. The story of a young man being given responsibility over the fate of mankind due to a plot contrivance giving him sole access to or rare talent in some kind of great power is a very common one in anime, and within the first season this show does very little to mix it up at all. The tone is pretty consistently bleak, with levity being rare and unfortunately rather poorly implemented when it does appear, but for an anime that's so lacking in depth or original thought this just serves to make it even more boring.

Its being so depthless and unoriginal is exactly why I find it difficult to understand why people are so interested in it. What about this show makes it apparently so much better than the mountain of other anime that have used the exact some concept and used it, to my mind, just as well? I suppose it could be the fight scenes, which are fine, though not particularly noteworthy if you ask me. Or perhaps the consistency of tone, which is honestly rare in anime and consequently kind of refreshing even if it doesn't really help the show much. But then I guess that the reason I'm writing this is because I don't know why this show is popular, so I certainly don't have any confidence in either of those guesses. If you enjoyed this show, don't hesitate to tell me what you thought was good about it. I'm honestly interested to know. For now though, I'm scoring it a five out of ten - I'm completely apathetic toward it. Because it does nothing at all unusual it can neither be said to be at all good or really at all bad. It's just mediocre, which when you get down to it is really the worst thing to be. I certainly don't intend to watch any future episodes of this anime.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice59Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
60Show lessOpenGift

Jul 3, 2015
hjlee
Recommended
I've watched a lot of other anime and this still stands as my number 1 top favorite anime. Story is well written and intense. Art is a little dull but it is still great. And the music is beyond outstanding. I love how the opening themes deliver a great message about humanity. And the soundtrack playing during the episodes just add to the intensity. There was at least some character development in it. But I enjoyed every second of it and no matter how many times I rewatch this I still enjoy it. I also do recommend that you read the manga. The anime leaves a few things out that are only in the manga. And will answer a lot of your questions about the anime.
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice62Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
62Show lessOpenGift



Jul 27, 2015
no0neknows
Mixed Feelings
Shingeki no Kyojin is an anime adaptation of the manga which won Kodansha Manga Award on the shounen category in 2011 and the utmost representative flag why kids nowadays will always prefer awesome action scenes instead good characters in a good story (we vidya now lads).

I try to at least be as objective as possible with these reviews, but in this case I can't not mention the constant annoyance the main character and his constant angsting about the things that happened in the first episode. Jesus Christ, his whole existence revolves around angst. Realistic portrayals of characters do not just use one aspect of them and blatter us over the head with that non-stop. There needs to be at least one high-moment to correlate all of the low moments. If he is in constant angst-mode and always shouting, it becomes meaningless and more of a joke or a running gag.

Now I know. It is shounen. What do I even expect? But the straw of thinking too deep into it doesn't work this time, because even when you scratch the surface of these characters, they still seem to be completely uninteresting. There is no concept worth exploring here, no good idea hooking you to the adventure and what is there, is boring after a few episodes.
Most of the things like character-motivation, their development and the pacing just seem quite off. The characters like Eren, Mikasa and Armin are completely one dimensional and void of almost any interesting aspect.

Up front, the more time passes between me, having watched the show and now thinking about it, the more average it becomes. I came to the conclusion, that the show severely lacks memorable moments. Many may call BS on me for that, but really think about it. Excluding what happens in Episode eight...I think, there was almost nothing for me to remember fondly. I'll say, that upon first completing the show, I quite liked it and would have even called it good, but that is just not the case anymore.

Also as enjoyment it's quite nice, but "Enjoyment" rating shouldn't be one of the aspects when making an impartial review and this is pretty much why 99% of MAL reviews are bad. There's plenty good stuff you could watch instead getting into this. After 1st season It gets insufferable -opinion even among the fans- so if you like action scenes just watch an american movie already.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice58Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
59Show lessOpenGift

Jan 6, 2014
Karhu
Recommended
To tease the madness and the grief
To curse the walls, to cure the need
To curse the damned who damn the need
The need to know what lies beyond, beyond the walls [1]


Shingeki no Kyojin is the 12th best and 18th most popular anime ever. This might sound sarcastic, but hear me out.

The idea is simple, yet the best ever because no one has done it before. Titans want to eat humans. Humans don't want to be eaten. Insert shit tons of action and blood and other cool shit ??? == anime of the century.

The story itself is about this guy Eren who wants to beat some titans ass. 5 episodes later he beats some titans ass. 10 episodes later everything is titans ass, and I don't know what the fuck, but it's pretty good. There is also this 9/10 chick Mikasa who is pretty, then cute, then sexy, then slutty, then hot. So the series definitely has character development.

The adaption relies on production values and yelling. We have action scenes, fight scenes, titan ass action scenes, titan ass fight scenes and action titan ass fight scenes. Blood, gore and flying body parts. Hot chicks, cool badass characters, insane and out of a mind coolfucks who are ON OUR SIDE. Ridiculously evil villains who just won't learn before main character kicks their ass! This is what I call quality entertainment.

The voice acting is bloody impressive. Eren yells louder than any other shonen protagonist. He has ideologies and people need to hear it. I personally love these scenes. It's not that the loudest voice is always right, but when someone cares to shout it out loud that loud, you just gotta admit that the man has a point.

The music is fucking A. Even Mozar would say so. Whoever created the first Opening song is genius for writing a song which goes perfectly with anything and everything. This could be the OP of every anime and tv series ever made and people would say; Oh, boy, that is very fitting song.

Shingeki no Kyojin creates what all people who work in the entertainment business aim at: entertainment. Not just any entertainment, but some serious titans-ass-getting-beaten-while-blood-flies entertainment, and that's why it is the 12th best anime ever.


Sauces
[1] Rishloo, Eidolon, 04 Pandora
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice57Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
58Show lessOpenGift

Nov 25, 2013
Extrieve
Recommended
Please read the Review first before marking it as “Helpful” or “Not Helpful”

One thing I´ve been noticing in the past few years is that new anime releases are lacking on originality and a serious plot, so when Shingeki no Kyojin or if you prefer Attack on Titan first came out I had all sorts of mixed feelings towards it, but this feeling of relief was always present on me. Attack on Titan is one of those anime that even non regular anime viewers praise, but does Titan lives up to all its Hype surrounding it or it just stays as Attack on Hypu?

Setting/Plot: 7.5
I will try to not drag out for too much in this part even though Attack on Titan has a very big premise, when humanity is no longer at the top of the food chain because of what they refer as Titans who resemble giant people varying from 4m class to a big ass 60m class have putted humans at border of extinction. Now humans only option is to live cornered in this 3 gigantic walls Maria, Rose and Sina. This situation creates a lot of limitations for humans such as their resources and their live space. On a first look the plot doesn´t look that amazing or original, but it doesn´t just stop there as the majority of people think, no, the world of Attack on Titan is much bigger than that delivering complex themes such as new religions, monarchic government, new social ideals, etc.

So the anime follows Eren a kid that has always been curious of the outside world, he has always had this motivation to join the Scouting Legion, accompanying him there´s Mikasa and his friend Armin. When suddenly a Colossal Titan appears with what they call the Armor Titan breach over the walls that have protected them for their whole lives, letting minor titans enter the wall and start chaos, the outcome of this event had Eren seeing her mother get eaten by a Titan which starts Eren journey to obliterate the Titans!

Art/Animation: 8.5
I personally was a bit concerned with this at first; Attack on Titan was produced by Studio Wit. As a new studio it’s usual that they start with less ambitious projects and I was preoccupied if they could handle a promising show like Titan; they went totally beyond my expectations!
Don´t get me wrong, it had decent animation, but when it needed to exceed their potential they did, that´s why SnK has God given action scenes!
As it for the artstyle I can say it has a different aspect looking a bit more cartoonish than most of the anime, I´m not saying this is good or bad it just depends on your taste. Also this combined with a world filled with medieval atmosphere does work pretty well. The animation is one of the remarkable things about Titan, with this you can notice their high production value played a great part on the anime because if just help to deliver the viewers a more realistic environment to what´s happening.


Soundtrack: 9
You know that a soundtrack is good not just when it helps building up the atmosphere but when it becomes memorable, that is what attack on titan OST´s delivered to me. The OST does not reach the “eargasm” levels for me but it surely is one of the greats. I also have to give them props for the voice casting, it just was right on spot with honorable mentions to Kamiya Hiroshi casting for Rivaille and Inoue Marina casting for Armin both with remarkable performances, being honest the whole cast has done an amazing performance!

Characters: 7
Now I come to the weakest part of the anime, I will just limit myself to talk about the main cast not because other characters are not important or I dislike them, is because anybody aside from the main cast of characters can die, even the coolest character if he´s not from the main cast he´s probably just there for the meat fest. This is really sad because there´s much more cooler characters the anime can focus on that don´t get that much screen time =(

Eren Yeager: Eren is our lead protagonist in the series, starting out being a character with a great determination that also felt very cliché with this “I´ll swear vengeance “thing. Although he has a great determination he sometimes turns out to be useless at times, even though he has this special something inside him…….

Mikasa Ackerman: Probably the best out of the three leads, Mikasa, is presented to us as a strong character not just physically but also emotionally. She also has this abnormal attachment towards the main lead Eren. She also takes part on some of the best scenes of the anime, just portraying how epic she can be.

Armin Arlert: Last but not least we have Armin, which for me is the one who gains more development throughout the anime being from a total pussy to a mastermind who leads important operations for humanity.

Enjoyment:9
Attack on Titan surely shows some remarkable work in a lot of its categories, but still is not perfect as people claim it to be it does enough to keep you eager to know what will happen next! Attack on Titan does not lifts up to all its Hype but this doesn´t mean that it fails to do a remarkable and enjoyable anime!
Overall: 8.5
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice62Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
63Show lessOpenGift

Aug 5, 2015
HellLyter
Recommended
This review is in song format made to the beat of Guren no Yumiya. (I-I tried, okay?)

Watching this show makes me crave POTATOES!
Ha Ha Ha, Ha! Ha
Reviewing titans!
Ha Ha Ha, Ha! Ha
REVIEWING TITANS!
This story starts in a small town.
Guarded by a towering wall.
But this world gets turned upside down.
By a titan fifty feet tall.
People run as they are attacked.
They know there is no going back.
Heroes meet and train together.
So their skills can become better.
People die and give an anguished wail.
But the main, characters, join a squad, to prevail!
Armin's a weak coward,
Eren seeks power,
Mikasa has got some FINE ABS!
The plot is thrilling, I cannot get enough!
Each episode's filled with action packed stuff!
The art and sound, they each get a gold star.
And everyone loves to shout YEAGER!
Side characters were lively and had depth.
To make feels stronger when led to their death.
It was a blast watching this anime.
Just let Levi clean away!
Ha Ha Ha, Ha! Ha
A ten out of ten.
Ha Ha Ha, Ha! Ha
Time to watch again.
Ha Ha Ha, Ha! Ha
This show's just so fun.
HA HA HA, HA!
MY REVIEW IS DONE!
HAAAA!
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice55Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
56Show lessOpenGift

Jun 29, 2015
interception
Recommended
Well I've read the manga a while ago, but never did I think it would get an anime adaptation this awesome.

Story 10/10: Although it does have a few cliches seen in many shonen, it is otherwise completely original, suspenseful and will have you on the edge of your seat every episode. Assuming the anime follows the manga faithfully, you are all in for many incredible twists!!!! Look forward for it, I can't wait.

Characters 9/10: Although only 2 episodes have been released, the character development is incredible. The 3 main characters should and most likely will be fleshed out wonderfully in the anime (if going by the manga), their back-stories are quite good/surprising/original.

Animation 9/10: What more is there to say?

Overall: This anime will most likely be the best of the season, it certainly had the best first episode of any anime I've watched, and there's no doubt production values will be on the high side. Here's hoping for another season after the first 25 episodes! Enjoy watching, it won't disappoint.
less
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice60Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
61Show lessOpenGift

May 24, 2014
EdBanger0123
Recommended
Shingeki no Kyojin or Attack on Titan is perhaps one of the most overrated shows I have seen. Don't get me wrong, it is well worth your time, it just has been overblown by fans whose previous anime experience is most likely limited to Naruto and Bleach. Naturally this is all my own opinion, and feel free to completely disregard it.
Let me get one thing straight though, this show is an excellent gateway for people trying to get into anime. If you know someone who wants to get started then this is perfect.

Right so the story and setting are as follows. In a world that resembles medieval Europe with little sprinkles of Steam Punk throughout, humanity has been forced to seclude itself in regions surrounded by heavily fortified and immense walls up to 50 meters high. Why you ask? To protect themselves from the Titans, giant docile humanoids that simply eat all humans they encounter and no one knows why. These Titans range in classes of sizes with some being only 5 meters tall to the special types like the Colossal Titan who himself reaches up to 60 meters.
So one average day where no trouble could possibly arrive from, the Colossal Titan and his friends the "Armored Titan" and the rest of the titan gang destroy the wall guarding our main protagonist Eren Jaeger's (pronounced "Yaeger") city and basically makes him have a bit of a difficult day to say the least. From here on he and his two friends Armin and Mikasa vow to destroy all Titans while they still live by join the military.

While the story and setting are indeed very intriguing and keep the viewer guessing, they suffer from some pacing issues where something that seems to be important gets disregarded and other events drag on for a bit too long in my opinion. I watched the show as it aired and the animation studio behind it "Studio Wit" did a great job and ended each episode with a cliffhanger making the week between each episode a tense and one that could not go any faster. However, there were some times where these cliffhangers felt rather cheap as the next episode would quickly wrap up the issue within the first minute or so.
I have to give props to the manga writer Hamjime Isayama for creating such a fresh setting that really pulls away from traditional fantasy. The 3D maneuver gear which the military use to fight titans are awesome gadgets that provide some of the best scenes in the show. Also the constant oppressive feeling that Attack on Titan delivers really succeeds in making you anxious about the future for this show. Hope always seems to cave in on itself.

My main issue with Shingeki no Kyojin is its characters. Going on the internet one will see that many fans of the show compare it to "Game of Thrones" for the show's ruthlessness regarding character deaths. This is true and in my opinion is meant to commended, however for that to be effective, one needs to care about the people dying. In all honesty I couldn't give a damn about the characters in this show, none are in any way interesting or go outside the common stereotypes found in anime.
In the 25 or so episodes of the show, the characters and their motives don't change since the first 2. Even the three main characters can be summed in one sentence by the end of the show. Eren is pissed off and hates Titans cause they killed someone precious to him. Mikasa is obviously in love with Eren and wants to protect him. Finally Armin is a guy too scared to fight first hand but has excellent strategic plans.
The other side characters are barely worth a mention, even Levi who all the fans seem to fantasize over for being "badass" is just a sadistic douche. Admittedly he does demonstrate some serious ass whooping skill in the show, and that I have to give credit for.
Without naming anyone, a person dies fairly early on in the show and every other character kept going on about how they miss them and they shouldn't have died. Truth be told, I didn't even know who the hell they were till much later in the anime.
I sincerely hope season 2 of Attack on Titan develops these characters more.

Okay so enough hating on AoT for now, lets talk about the positives. Well for one, the art and animation. Studio Wit are a brand new studio whose first production is this show. I can only say that they must be comprised of artistic gods! The animation here is seriously the best I have ever seen in any anime. Many people complained about still shots being used during episode downtime particularly early in the show but Wit make up for it by delivering some of the most spectacular action scenes I have witnessed. There is something truly jaw dropping about seeing people zip around cityscapes in their 3D Maneuver Gear. I cannot compliment the animation and art in this anime enough.

The music is also excellent. Composer Hiroyuki Sawano (also composed the soundtrack fro Kill la Kill) does an incredible job of emphasizing the setting with sombre and slow melodies accompanied by a some beautiful german singing to elevate the darker scenes in the show. Some pumping electronic sounds mixed with grand and epic choirs also get the hairs on your back standing for the more action heavy scenes.

All in all Shingeki no Kyojin is well worth your watch. While I don't think the characters will find their own space in your heart (not with Eren's constant whining), I do believe you will have a great time with this show, especially is you are a lover of action. I myself am incredibly excited for season 2 and severely hope that they fix up some issues with the plot and characters then.
If you are going to watch, avoid the manga spoilers like the plague!

Thank you for your time.
Reviewer’s Rating: 8
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice59Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
60Show lessOpenGift

May 11, 2013
lilbuffkitty
RecommendedPreliminary (5/25 eps)
If you are looking for a light-hearted, revolving around boobs, sugar coated anime. Fuck off. This is one of the most harsh animes I have seen in a while. People you are introduced to are slaughtered, and these "Titans" are pure evil. From the first episode the Eren (Main Character) was traumatized by the giants, he has been acting purely out of guts and vengeance. Everyone fears the Titans and almost all run from them even if they are soldiers. Eren is an exception, his vow is to kill all titans and reclaim the world for the people. He has no natural talent but he survives sheerly off of determination and remorse. If you want to watch a badass gorey anime, look no further. The fighting system in this anime is extremely clever and original, I have never seen anything like it. It's no simple sword, gun, or magic anime; these people use technology like no other to fight the giants, although they must be skilled with the equipment. The animations are great, the art is different but not in a bad way, after one episode of this anime I grew attached to the main character, and every ending of an episode makes me want to watch the next episode more than the last one. Overall, this anime is probably the greatest i've watched in a long time, IMO this is better than SAO already(SAO was amazing).
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice54Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
55Show lessOpenGift

Sep 2, 2014
Ginga_Daiuchuu
Not RecommendedPreliminary (13/25 eps)
[REUPLOAD]

"I'm going to kill all the Titans!"

Why, of course you are.



"Zombie" is a genre. It's not survival horror, it's "Zombie" respectively. This is because Zombie follows a completely different set of rules, tropes and clichés, while survival horror is a vague category that could really be much broader. Shingeki no Kyojin is not a horror show, not a serious Seinen, or a well written show. It's a disappointing mess of a Shounen zombie show.

To qualify as a Zombie show, several plot points are required. You need a menace/zombies, the survivors/prey of the menace, as well as a location where supplies are limited or scarce. The Titans, humans, and the 3 walls fit under these points. Congratulations, SnK qualifies in the preliminaries. But does it hold up?

Absolutely not; SnK completely lacks the themes that make a Zombie media good, or at least entertaining. It's predictable with a lack of tension thanks to plot holes, Gary Stu protagonists who for some reason can't die, and no direct relation to what’s happening to the characters on the screen. The main selling of a Zombie media is emotions akin to fear or anxiety. Basically never knowing who's going to die, or how and when people do die, it should mean something, since you as the viewer feel a connection as if you were surviving with that person all along the stories direction.

Now you'll say, "But people die in SnK all the time! Have you even seen the show?!?!?”

People don't die in SnK, cardboard backgrounds SHAPED like people die in SnK. These "people" have no memorable names or development going for them, just one trait that you remember them by; like black kid or short kid. These "people" die like frogs in a grinder, for nothing more than mere shock value, which is an ironic saying because there is no value in it at all.

The main characters that have names, but not any actual depth mind you; don't die at all. They are beaten, eaten, and torn, yet they still live. Why?

Because Eren is Naruto. He's going to save the day, defeat the enemy, keep his friends alive, and obtain a secret power that makes him near invincible (a terrible shounen trope). He's a bland and unlikable shounen protagonist straight from the box o' clichés, written by a third grader in purple crayon. He also has his girlfriend who is super strong, and together they can take on entire titan armies. This reincarnation of Jesus is what breaks the whole atmosphere of a Zombie show. Zombie shows are supposed to bring out the human aspects of its inhabitants, mortality being a major theme. Having a Gary Stu with more plot armor than a castle has bricks, breaks the human formula.

My biggest problem with SnK is that it has the nerves to use the, "IT HAPPENED OFF SCREEN" tactic. 5 years of training that's supposed to make everyone stronger? Skipped, and even with this aforementioned training, hundreds die on the FIRST mission. 20% of the population dying? Skipped dawg. Titan behavior observation? Haven't seen him. All these plot points could be used for character development, a concept unknown in SnK.

And don't talk to me about the pacing. This show takes its god damn time on absolutely the most irritatingly absurd predicaments. Eren and friends spend an entire episode (That takes an eternity mind you) about to be fired upon from his allies, all for them finally to come to the conclusion that they should ask their allies not to fire. What?!?! Anyone could have done that without a second thought, and it wouldn't take them Armin's "special tacticool talent", which by the way, doesn't exist. He's just a useless whiny annoyance, but at least he's under human restrictions, unlike Mr. KILLALLTITANS.

The menace of a Zombie show usually has a set of rules that are observed by the characters and then exploited in order to survive. Example, zombies are attracted to humans to eat. While a few general rules are known about the Titans, every different Titan acts randomly. Some Titans are slow, sluggish and easily killed; while others jump super high and grab you lightning fast with their mouths. Some Titans can run faster than humans with gear, and then again some can't even walk properly. The only explanations we ever get, is that any Titan that acts differently is an “abnormal." Thanks to this asinine bullshit, not only are the humans broken, but the menaces are as well!

On Music and Animation…
A very solid sound track; all that can be said is that it's wasted on SnK. The animation is poor quality with 50 million stills in every episode. No such praise is deserved in this category.

As a reminder, SnK is a SHOUNEN, when it could very easily be a quality Seinen with its original exposition. It’s majorly disappointing that all this potential is to go to waste. SnK might look good in comparison to other shows it’s competing with, but a rock isn’t a diamond just because it’s surrounded by dirtier rocks.

Pop quiz. What do we do with poor Shounen?
We forget about them.
Reviewer’s Rating: 2
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice38Love it Love it4Funny Funny4Show all
47Show lessOpenGift

Jul 21, 2015
VanZanX
Recommended
I remember hearing about an anime called Attack on Titan (Shingeki no Kyojin) and it's huge popularity when it's first season originally aired. Naturally, I looked into it, watching a trailer and reading a description, etc, and found myself unimpressed (even turned off) by what I saw. Something about those giants with their ridiculous grins and overall appearance did absolutely nothing for me.

Now, two years later, and a sudden passion to catch up on my exponentially-growing backlog of anime, I finally decided to give this series an honest try. After all, it must have gained all this popularity for a reason, right?

From the very first episode, I was blown away. Aside from the giants (or titans, as they are called), I found the artwork and animations fantastic, with the CG interwoven beautifully. There was an instant, heartfelt connection to the main characters. And the music was exceptional.

I had to have more, and more I did have, finishing the first season in only three days. Overall, I couldn't have been much more pleased with Shingeki no Kyojin, and regret not having given it a chance sooner. Out of 25 episodes, I found only one or two of only moderate value, while all the rest kept me on the edge of my seat with a mix excitement, shock, fear, grief, anticipation and awe.

It didn't take long at all to get used to the odd appearance of the titans, and even came to my own understanding of their purpose for it. Outside of that, my only real complaints are story-related, in the sense that I just have so many unanswered questions (especially not having read the manga). But the series isn't over after all, and I'm sure that the majority of my questions will get answered in the next season.

Shingeki no Kyojin is almost non-stop action sequences and gut-wrenching emotional rollercoasters. Any anime that can thoroughly pull me into its world and make me so emotionally invested in its characters is a success in my book.

I may have misjudged this anime initially, but next time, when season two airs, I'm going to be one of the first in line to see it!
Reviewer’s Rating: 9
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice54Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
55Show lessOpenGift

Oct 13, 2025
Zomoko11222
Not RecommendedFunnyFunny
I always looked at AOT as a joke because despite all this fanfare, It has always been a below average shonen which tricked some spectactors into thinking It is a mature story. Also, the animation played a huge role. Every anime with great animation is amazing for some anime watchers

It's the edgelord's favorite anime. Kids watched AOT thinking They are watching something for adults because there is blood and gore. Having dark themes doesn't make you mature. It's how an anime handles it. And the way AOT handles it is so childish. AOT is shock porn. Everything is written to shock. It relies on plot twists and plot twists just to create viral moments.

It's the same technique Re Zero and many authors use with its abuse of cliffhangers. It's a great technique to create dopamine and trick the audience into thinking the story is amazing. The author has always been a fraud who got exposed eventually. I laughed out loud at AOT's stupid plot twists. It showed clearly the author had no idea what he was writing.

Now, AOT's reputation crashed and everyone sees it for the trash it is. Don't get it twisted, AOT has always been trash. It was Just too popular and made too much money to criticize it. So, there was a lot of shilling. Even directors and editors are shitting on it nowadays. Very funny. Lesson to be learned from this disaster, write a story to express something not to shock the viewers.
Reviewer’s Rating: 1
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice7Love it Love it0Funny Funny32Show all
47Show lessOpenGift

Dec 9, 2013
TheAnimeGeneral
Mixed Feelings
When I look at the rankings of this anime, I am quite surprised. I was almost certain based on the praising reviews that was going to be a great anime revival show. I thought wrong.

Highlights:

START: extremely strong start, such a powerful first episode that immediately drew me into the show.
PRODUCTION: very well done, no question about it. If there is something good to say about Attack on Titan/Shingeki no Kyojin it is certainly the animation, music and sound. Crisp and perfect. The animation has entirely no flaws, and the background settings are gorgeously animated. The music was another great aspect of the show, setting the correct tone at all times.

Lowlights:

CHARACTERS: super cliche, especially the main three characters: Eren, Mikasa, and Armin. The reason that they are cliche is because all they do the entire show is talk about how much they want to eliminate the Titans, not how they would do it, but merely that they were going to with no possible ideas of how. Another thing that bothered me throughout the entire show was instead of cooperating and working out tactics of eliminating Titans, all I could notice about the conversations were that it seemed just like a “who can wear out their voice enough until they can’t talk trash about the enemy any longer” contest.
FOCUS: based on the ending of the series, I came to the conclusion that the first 15 or so episodes were a pointless plot. There was a new goal to accomplish after the first 15 or so episodes, and that was what remained entirely in the show.
PACING: slower than a three-toed-sloth. I could not watch full episodes at times because it got so repetitive and boring.
MORALS: the show has no message, unless you count “when you get invaded by giant stupid naked people, fight back.” The show pretty much seemed very anti-peace, even at the end.

So if you want to see a highly produced show, go for Attack on Titan/Shingeki no Kyojin. However, if you are destined to watch an anime with greatly developed characters and a pointful plot, I wouldn’t recommend this one.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice53Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
54Show lessOpenGift

Feb 11, 2014
vasolina
Mixed Feelings
Just like a lot of people I suppose, I watched SNK to see what's the big deal about, as it wasn't in my list that season.

It starts out with the shock factor. I thought, even though this isn't my kind of thing, I could maybe watch it for the suspense. But then it got into long cycles of boring and in my opinion, poorly executed character development scenes. As far as the story is concerned, I wouldn't say it's the most complex or sophisticated one, but they played the suspense/shock card very well, and it is something that can obviously attract a lot of people.

This anime has very well crafted action scenes. However, because of that, most of the other scenes are poorly animated, to the extent where it looks like a student's flash animation project at times. Even putting that aside, I think the style of the animation as a whole is not particularly creative.

It is obvious why SNK is so popular, but it doesn't do it for me. I would say it's too much style over substance, and not meaning the animation style.
Reviewer’s Rating: 6
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice57Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
58Show lessOpenGift

Dec 16, 2013
KingFlabadingdon
Mixed Feelings
Attack on titan

Story- The story follows humanity’s struggle of survival as it hides behind the safety of 50 metre high walls that has protected them from anthropoid beings known as titans for over 100 years. These titans are mysterious in origin and are massive in size. Their only goal is to kill humanity for seemingly no reason. After 100 years of peace, a breach in the outer of the 3 walls caused by a mysterious, previously unseen 60 metre tall titan pushes humanity to a desperate situation.

We thus follow the story of 3 teenagers, Eren, Armin and Mikasa and how they fit into this chaos. The first few episodes provide the viewer with an entirely new experience that will shock and change all you will naturally expect from an anime.

The first 7 episodes were pretty much the longest Holy shit!!! moments from what I have currently seen from an intro. But after this initial promise, the actual story unravels.

Once everything settles down, the pace slows right down, the standard array of stereotypical characters are all introduced in 5 minutes and the story no longer develops. Humanity must kill the titans! Yup. That’s pretty much it. The very nature of the enemy limits the story to just that, the titans can’t talk, they have no morals. So all this anime can ever be is how Eren kills the titans. This is so unbelievably one dimensional it’s a joke. With only one end goal, there can only be a series of extremely predictable single battles against the titans. And all of these suffer some serious pace issues. In the middle of a fight, the anime would stop to hear everyone’s opinions. Or it would decide to watch countless flashbacks of traumatic family events. With the clear attraction of attack on titan being on the action, why bother showing this after we are all so pumped up?

I have also read the supposed ending of the attack on titan anime series. My armpit has more creativity than that. Message me if you want the details. 4

Art- this section is the most controversial in my books. Whilst the artwork is undoubtedly superb, i.e. the fight scenes and the environments, the underlying language of the artwork is flawed. Attack on titan is, as far as anime can be, very gory. People’s heads and limbs are flying everywhere. But fighting these grotesque beings are a group of 3 teenagers (of which Armin is apparently a boy) who all look like they’ve just worked out how to use a toilet. It’s like watching ash ketchum go ‘fuck you charizard!’ and watch him proceed to break his neck. It’s confusing. The design of the titans are, maybe intentionally, grotesque. But I am sure that there are better design potentials here. I’m pretty sure I saw Nicholas cage as one of the titans. 6

Sound- the soundtrack is amazing. Suitably epic and upbeat. But there is no other dimensional quality to the soundtrack. Even when the main character’s mum dies, an epic fight song is playing. The anime needs to learn, even in an action led story, more than action can exist. The beauty of friendships are poorly conveyed through the music for example. The voice acting is the most over the top voice acting I have ever witnessed. It’s not, ‘can you pass me the water’, its ‘ (with lines and explosions encircling the character) I have failed you mother!!! I need the water to save my friends and to kill the titans!!!!!! Calm your tits already. Blimey. 7

Characters- defiantly not the strong point of attack on titan. The main character literally just wants to kill all titans to avenge his mother. A far more powerful character, Mikasa, starts of wanting to protect Eren, yet by the end, she wants to protect Eren even more! Wait, what? The only development we see is of Armin, who starts from a complete wussy to what you expect from a main character. All other characters just fulfil the stereotypical archetype that the writers have fallen for. It was so disappointing to see this after seeing such a unique beginning. 4

Enjoyment- suffice to say, I did not enjoy attack on titan. I spent most of the time being frustrated by how slow it was all moving and how childish everything was. I was pulled in by the overwhelming popularity and amazing action scenes. What I was met with was a very childish attempt at making gore cool. Providing a lame excuse for teenagers to create a lot of carnage is not a good story. As awesome as the fight scenes were, they cannot make up for how immature it all is. 4

Overall- I’m really sorry for all the attack on titan fans reading this. But I am 18 and I have outgrown this senseless, immature and shallow genre. Whether I recommend watching it, I would actually say yes. The first 7 episodes are actually amazing. But the initial rebelling against the norm was quickly ignored and it drifted back to an average anime. 5
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice48Love it Love it1Funny Funny0Show all
49Show lessOpenGift

Jul 21, 2015
LucidFilms
RecommendedPreliminary (10/25 eps)
Hello Lucid here,

So like many I also watched Attack on Titan. Wow this anime is so intense it reopens what anime is about and I want to focus on the emotion in this anime. Cause this anime has tons of it.

Story:
The story is original, as in that It has an unique setting. This world they live in is a hell and no one knows how it ended up being this crazy. So we as a viewer also don't know how all of this happened and why it's happening. Thus the basis for the story is set, we live in a world of fear where we are protected by huge walls from Titans that want to murder us and destroy us until none of us are left.

Now this anime starts with the Titans breaching the wall and it sets the story in motion. Our main Protagonist now has a reason to fight these titans with a hatred not even Lelouch could match.

So we see these kids who join the Army and become fighters against the Titans. But what this anime does different than any other anime where the story is driven by revenge, is that it's so realistic. Now I'm not saying giant Titans are realistic but giant Titans fighting people who are but insects to them, well if you ever stepped on a bug how often did it fight back succesfully?

So we enter this world we know nothing about and we only see the POV of the main Protagonist who's only wish is to kill all Titans. So we are limited to what he knows. And as the Story moves onward we learn bit by bit more and more about the world of the titans and how it all started.

Here I have to say that all of this happens in an extremely slow tempo but it never bored me. Yes every episode ends with a huge cliffhanger so at the time I watched it I had to wait a week before finding out. And even then an episode could not even reveal what happened the week before. So if you can be patient like I am this anime will be the anime for you.

Now the Story is still vague and since I don't want to read the manga I don't know what is going to happen in season two. But that doesn't matter the first season of AOT was amazing, an adrenaline ride full of emotion. Where no one is safe from the wrath of the titans! (don't watch that movie it blows.)
So the story is hard to judge, the synopsis is great and creative and this world is amazing with lots of detail. But yea until we get the answers I feel like I cannot judge an incomplete story.

Characters:
Well here is where AOT shines. The characters: So much emotion has been put in these characters. We actually see fear in this anime, something most anime don't seem to know. Characters are actually so afraid that they abandon people instead of playing the hero. People get confronted with themselves and trusting others becomes very hard. We also see the burden of these decisions come back to haunt those who made them. We see people cry out to the gods to bring back their loved ones. People scream out of fear or sadness in a way I want western movies to show us more. More is more in this case when it comes to emotion. But it's never to much, the emotion is never at a level where it becomes weird or unrealistic. No the emotion here is what I expect when we are confronted with our biggest fear: Death. How many will cower and how many will stand up in a failed attempt to save someone.

Yesh the Character development is rich, it might feel slow as with many of these episodes but it's there, it's subtle but I rather have it slow than hasted. People need to endure a lot before they can change and our main characters are young, therefore the confusion in their actions is what is so great about this anime. It shows a world I would never want to live in.

Anime often offers a rich world that even though there is war, murder or agony you still want to be part of it, play the hero and look bad ass while you do it. Well forget that with AOT no one wants to live in that world, there is no place for heroes, acting like a hero gets you killed. No this world is fear and survival there is no time for happiness not when you're up against giant titans.

Now as I said the Characters are rich and well drawn out. There isn't a single person I hate in this anime, they don't feel cliché and they act never out of their own line.

Sound:
Sound/Music, is simply amazing in this anime. Might I also add the lack of sound in some scenes makes the scene so much more intense. Yes this anime will shiver you with their use of sound fx and the music will push your adrenaline to a new level.

Art:
Now this is a beauty. The Art is AMAZING, rarely we see an anime this nice. Just look at some screen shots and you will see why this anime is living up to it's hype. Yes the Art adds all that is needed to make this so intense. And maybe best of all are the Action Sequences, I think that if we had this anime four years ago we wouldn't of had this kind of sequences it's perfect, just watch the official trailer and you get what I mean, it is as if you are flying with them and that is where I leave art at.

Overall:
Yes this anime brought me so much joy, It's intense, it will bring you to the edge and even throw you over at some times because you cannot hold in. You want to scream like they do, you want to fight and punish like they try and in the end you just want to look away and cry. This anime gets weirder and weirder as it progresses and the story becomes more and more intense, and even when we don't know what will happen next it's still an awesome ride that everyone should watch.

Happy Watching :)
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice49Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
50Show lessOpenGift

Aug 29, 2015
lawlmartz
Mixed Feelings
Neon Attack Genesis on Evangelion Titan, or “Our Lawyers Made Us Change The Name of This Show So We Wouldn’t Get Sued”

A deconstruction.

Preface:
You see, a guy named William Shakesman once said, “brevity is the soul of wit”, so I’m not going to waste anybody’s time with a garbage two sentence “OMG THIS IS THE BEST ANIMU EVAR I HEART EREN SO MUCH 10/10 EVERYTHING” review.
Nope, you fanboys want the truth? You can’t handle the truth. But I’m gonna lay it out here for you anyway.
I’m going to break this thing down into three parts. The “tropes lifted from every zombie media Setting”, the “cliché Characters”, and the “Circuitous, Shonen Storytelling”.
-----

The Trope Filled, Every Zombie Media Setting

A while back, monstrous humanoid giants hell-bent on destroying humans struck. All but a few thousand humans were wiped out, waging a futile war against an enemy they neither understood, nor knew how to fight. Present day, there's one human settlement left, protected by three 50m high concentric walls, the largest among them 300 miles across, making it about the size of Germany.
Okay so, a little more info on these human killing giants, right? Because that was pretty vague. They have 3 qualities.

1) They kill and eat humans. They do not need to eat humans for sustenance, they just do it because the plot demands it of them

2) Nobody knows where they came from, or why, and it doesn’t matter. I’m sure there will be some BS pseudo-scientific explanation for their existence later, because these type of shows ALWAYS take one of three paths:

-----
1. Scientists did this! Biological weapon/genetic mutation experiments, who cares? It’s all vaguely scientific and intellectual sounding, so that’ll fool the teen demographic
2. A Wild Virus Appeared! Some mutated microbe that’s unaffected by any drug affects all but some small number of populace who, by plot convenience, don’t contract the illness
3. Who the hell cares! Zombies are here and we have to shoot, maim, kill, and destroy them to survive!
-----

4) They are notoriously hard to kill… you can hack and slash on them all day long and they’ll still swat you like flies. *whispers* wait, I’m getting some breaking news. You can KILL them by attacking the neck/head area, just like some other TV shows and movies involving the undead… hmmmmm

Titans are just zombies. Face the facts. This is a zombie show. It premiered during the height of zombie craze, and through shrewd marketing and an impeccable sense of timing, a hit was born. Did it have to be substantive? Heck no, all it had to do was prey on these little fragile children’s emotions and “OH MY FEEEELZ” by killing off a few characters that we still know nothing about, nor formed any attachment to, along with throwing in a Gary Stu blank slate of a main character onto which these angsty teens can project themselves.
-----

The Stupid Setting Part II

Oh wait, did I say Germany? It’s plainly obvious that AOT is ripping off any and everything late medieval German Gothic and Renaissance styled architecture. Oh, and if the names and races of the characters didn’t give it away, I don’t know what would. Eren Jäger? Braun? Bertolt? Kirstein? Zoe Hänge? Also, it’s quite amazing how these characters all speak fluent Japanese, given that they’re all, except our token Asian character, Mikasa, German. Now wouldn’t that be an innovative anime- one with Deutsch spoken and subtitled in Japanese?

Now that I’ve started listing names, it’s time to get to the
-----

Cliché Characters Section!

We've got the not-so-subtly named main character Eren I'm-Going-Kill-Titans-Don't-Tell-Me-What-To-Do-You're-Not-My-Dad Jäger, who's hell-bent on the destruction of the oppressive titans who show up to wreck his life... talk about teen angst, sheesh. Eren’s sole means of expressing himself in this show is “GRRRRUUUAAAAHHHH I hate titans I’m going to kill them all!!! (in order to keep X tragedy from happening again, because remember kids, NO shonen protagonist is complete without family tragedy!)”
Wait, where have we heard this before? What’s that? Every shonen series ever?
Let’s take a small cut from the block of trope that makes up the shonen genre, shall we?

Rin Okumura: “I’M GOING TO KILL EVERY DEMON, AND SATAN TO SAVE MY BROTHER!”
Kazuto Kirigaya: “I’M GOING TO KILL ALL THE BADDIES TO SAVE MY FRIENDS!”
Ed/Al Elric: “WE’RE GOING TO KILL ALL THE HOMUNCULI AND SAVE EVERYONE!”
Shiro Emiya: “I’m not going to kill anyone, but I will SAVE EVERYONE!”
Ken Kaneki agrees with Shiro, and they meet up with Shinji Ikari to hide.
-----

Mikasa My-Plot-Armor-Is-Stronk-But-My-Sword-Arm-Is-Stronger Ackermann is our leading lady. She personifies the Silent Strong type. She only says two lines in the whole show: “Eren you idiot, I always have to save you because you’re the main character and you can’t die!”
And “Why did I sign up for this job, again?”
-----

Rounding out our trio, we have He-Man's midget brother, Armin I-Use-My-Mind-Not-My-Muscles Arlert. He’s also hiding out with Shinji and Ken.

When someone dies in this show, it’s like watching someone kick a little puppy. They show you some little scene about the character and their life before, and how they’re never going to go home to hug mom and their fish are going to starve now because they’re not going to be around to feed them. We never get any attachment to characters who die because they’re never given enough screentime to be relevant, or anyone we should care about. Of course, nobody that matters to the plot dies, either.
-----


Just when you thought this was about to get into some “Circuitous, Shonen Storytelling!”, HERE COMES THE “Circuitous, Shonen Storytelling!”

Attack on Titan isn’t a 700 episode series like Detective Conan or One Piece… yet. With this pace though, and the ever intangible, nebulous goal (straight ripping off the fantastic David Fincher movie, “Se7en”) of “WHAT’S IN THE BASEMENT, MANNNN?” Otaku on Titan takes a turn for the molasses.
When it isn't taking a 3 episode sabbatical of dialogue (in typical shonen fashion), the show does move pretty quickly… to boredom. If you’re not getting angsty teens shouting at each other over why they have to kill stuff, or that they don’t want to do it anymore, or crying over their lives; it’s them killing stuff, then crying about their lives.

I didn’t forget to remember to mention that AOT is just a cheap ripoff of Neon Genesis Evangelion, did I?
Plot basics:
1) Humanity fights an enemy it doesn’t understand, is whittled down to a tiny populace, and is poorly equipped to handle the threat, until one day… A HERO EMERGES!
2) Hero has daddy problems. Hero’s female sidekick(s) also have parent problems
3) Hero loses loved ones which causes them to have to fight, even if they don’t want to
4) Conspiracy!
-----

Here it is. I committed the ultimate sin and rated the beloved Attack on Titan a 5. "Why? why would you do this, LawlMartz?" "Why would you give Shingeki no Kyojin a paltry 5 and not the 10 it so effortlessly achieved and deserves??" they ask me. To this, my answer is simple. “Children, Attack on Titan is like any movie made by Marvel/Disney recently- sure, it's fun, it looks nice, and the masses love it, but at the end of the day, you didn’t see anything new and it didn’t leave a lasting impression on you, other than how immensely angsty it was.”

Attack on Titan is honestly just too vanilla to really hate. It borrows from countless other shonen before it, and puts all the tropes in one pot, and comes out the anime equivalent of a hot dog… pretty good if you have no expectations or never had one before… but then you want something better afterwards.

Let’s just call it Otaku on Titan and call it a day.
Reviewer’s Rating: 5
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice46Love it Love it0Funny Funny1Show all
47Show lessOpenGift

Jul 18, 2015
Hazza231
RecommendedPreliminary (10/25 eps)
no spoilers

everything about this anime screams originality. It is seen as one of the best recent animes and it is one of the best right now.

the story is basic and easy to follow
the art is cool and doesn't leave a lot of action or gore to the imagination
the soundtrack is awesome beyond belief
the characters are all interesting and realistic as only two recruits are fearless, all the rest piss their pants when a titan is near, this is the realism of a war that is not expressed enough on those that fight with no original intention or with see themselves as perfect soldiers only to die in the first 5 minutes of combat.
it is one of the most entertaining shows around and always keeps you on the edge only being dulled by repeating episodes but always ends with an acceptable ending to the series of episodes.

if you haven't watched this TV series WATCH IT NOW!!!!
everyone I know who has watched it love it and always leaves me thinking of other ideas that the show has brought and shown on a bloody platter of body parts.
Reviewer’s Rating: 10
What did you think of this review?
Nice Nice48Love it Love it0Funny Funny0Show all
49Show lessOpenGift

Oct 30, 2013
DollFishu
Recommended
When I first saw this anime, I was utterly blown away. Not only did it prove to show that there is still hope in the anime scene not disappointing you with redundant, repetitive, milked out fan serviced themes but it does so with a main character that happens to be the least irksome to one's taste.

The story talks about the last remnants of humanity cooped up behind amazingly huge walls protecting them from gigantic monsters known as Titans. You are introduced to the main characters: Eren Jaeger, Mikasa Ackerman, and Armin Arlert who are childhood friends that innocently dream of going beyond the walls and discovering the real world out there (just like any kid would!) This peaceful setting is disrupted when, out of the blue, a huge 60 foot Titan peeks from behind the 50 feet walls right at the puny humans and goes ahead to kick the gate that is sheltering humanity from the woes of the outside world that the Titans inhabit, wide open.

This is where the story starts to unfold around the mystery surrounding these Titans and why they are adamant on "eating" humanity as a whole.

All throughout every episode you will find yourself attached to every single character from here onwards. Some unceremoniously die, some have naive thoughts and goals to what they should do in life, some want to take the easy way out of their strife, and some just go with the flow because they don't think they are strong-willed to fight back. All in all you will be attached to characters that exhibit real human qualities.

Simple concept for a story, isn't it? Nope it ain't.

This isn't your run-of-the-mill monster/horror/doomed humanity anime. People fail to realize that the Attack on Titan setting is exactly the same setting we all live in our real lives. It reminds you that anyone who is bigger, better, and stronger will not only devour you whole, but will also devour your entire dreams, hopes, and future with it.

And this main character, Eren Jaeger...this kid, you actually root for this wide eyed enthusiastic little bugger - who adamantly with all his heart wants to turn the tide whether it be for better or for worse. He knows that he has to FIGHT in order to go anywhere in life, and he isn't letting these monsters ruin his will to live; his will to take matters into his own hands.

It's very rare to have a character pump you up. It serves to show how willpower alone can do wonders - even if you are only human.

The art is absolutely breathtaking. The colors are so vivid and you honestly can't get enough of the lush background scenes. The action sequences were awesomely superb, especially with the surprisingly fluid 3D Maneuver Gear sequences. As for the characters the first thing you will notice are the EYES. They are so vividly colored and illustrated you can't help but find yourself drawn to them.

The music is simply outstanding. It fits very well with the mood of the story. Starting from the opening sequence to the ending credits. The BGM and SFX were especially very well placed whenever a character is seen flying around using the 3D Maneuver Gear. The ambiance and that feeling of dread that emanates from the music captures you from the very first episode. Honestly, if anyone hates the music I will royally Jaeger your ass!

Unlike the manga, the anime didn't do justice or make way for any sort of character development. First timers wouldn't be THAT drawn to the characters from the get-go. But the development is still there, you just need to look closely. Yep, closer....OH there it is! I do hope that everyone reading this review would give them a fleeting chance if any. If you're still not convinced, then go ahead and read the manga. You will be equally blown away, anyways.

I haven't enjoyed an anime like this in a very long while. As I said in the very beginning of the review, animes nowadays have only cliched themes and seem to just bring out a yawn rather than any hint of interest. I've been so picky that I almost did not watch Attack on Titan (*GASP* the blasphemy!)

It epically portrayed a lot of simple concepts and elements that are most importantly HUMAN. It teaches you how easy it is to have hope inch further and further away from your grip and how easy it is to just give up. Though if no one around you is willing to stand tall and face adversity, it doesn't mean that YOU have to be scared out of your wits too.

I urge everyone to watch Attack on Titan...then go ahead and read the manga, because if you'll be as hooked as I am then I'm sure you wouldn't even be able to bear waiting for the second season to come around the corner.

Happy Jaegering!
Reviewer’s Rating: 9